On the campaign trail on Saturday, Donald Trump asserted that there was no terrorism in the US when he was the president, a claim that is false in myriad ways.
It’s not the first time he has made the claim, which is also linked to Trump’s plans, should he become president again, to bring back a “Muslim ban” that blocked or made it very difficult to travel to the US from several Muslim-majority countries.
Despite Trump’s much-vaunted travel ban, there was plenty of terrorism on his watch as the 45th president of the United States.
On October 31, 2017, Sayfullo Saipov, an Uzbek resident of the US who was inspired by ISIS, plowed a truck into a group of pedestrians in Manhattan, killing eight and wounding 11.
Two years later, a member of the Saudi military shot and killed three American sailors and wounded eight others at the US Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida.
During Trump’s presidency, there were also multiple lethal attacks by far-right terrorists, most notably on August 3, 2019, when a white nationalist went on a shooting rampage at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, killing 23 people who he believed were Hispanic immigrants, according to the US Department of Justice.
Also, the most lethal antisemitic attack ever in the United States took place on October 27, 2018, when a terrorist killed eleven people at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh.
It seems, at least in Trump’s mind, that lethal acts of terrorism carried out by far-right terrorists don’t count as terrorism.
Trump, of course, also helped to instigate one of the most spectacular acts of domestic terrorism in American history when he egged on a mob of thousands of his supporters to march on the US Capitol on January 6, 2021, which triggered a riot that injured 114 Capitol Police officers, according to a bipartisan US Senate investigation. The riot also led to the deaths of five people.
When Trump was in office, the travel ban faced various legal challenges but was eventually upheld by the US Supreme Court and included visitors to the US from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen as well as North Korea and Venezuela.
The ban, of course, did nothing to impede the Uzbek terrorist who killed eight people in Manhattan or the Saudi terrorist who killed three sailors in Pensacola. Nor did it do anything to stop the domestic terrorists that are already here in the US.
Terrorism did not disappear with Trump, and his proposed “solution,” were he to become president again – amping up the Muslim travel ban – likely won’t accomplish much of anything.
If he were really serious about trying to reduce the number of victims of terrorism in the US, an excellent place to start would be restricting the ability to purchase the kinds of semi-automatic rifles that were used in the atrocities at the Walmart in El Paso, and the synagogue in Pittsburgh.
At the same CNN town hall, Trump referred to January 6 as a “beautiful day.” Trump has made a lot of bizarro claims over the years, but this must surely rank among his wackiest.  My wife and I live in Washington, DC, and we were so unnerved by the violence unfolding at the Capitol that we picked up our kids early from school. This was not a beautiful day, but one of the grimmest the Republic has seen in a long time.
As Trump spends more time on the campaign trail, we will surely be seeing more factually challenged statements of this type.
Fact-checking those statements will likely have zero impact on the MAGA faithful, but it may provide some small solace for those who labor in the fact-based world.
Donald Trump is promising a second presidency that would be an aberration in American history.
The former and possibly future commander in chief aspires to strongman power if he wins back the White House next year. He believes his authority would be absolute. He wants vengeance against his political enemies. He’d pose the greatest challenge to the rule of law and the Constitution in modern times, seek to crush press freedoms and gut the machinery of government.
None of this is speculation. Trump is saying and showing exactly what he would do in his rallies, social media posts, interviews, lawyers’ filings and even appearances in court that he uses to stigmatize the legal system. And Trump’s ambitions should be taken seriously because one year from the election, President Joe Biden’s reelection hopes are far from secure.
Take Trump’s speech in New Hampshire on Saturday, when he chose to rip at national divides rather than foster unity on Veterans Day.
At a time of global unrest, as wars rage in Gaza and Ukraine and with US power challenged by foes like China and Russia, Trump also resorted to a classic authoritarian trope. “The threat from outside forces is far less sinister, dangerous and grave than the threat from within,” he said.
Chris Christie reacts to Trump pledging to 'root out' 'radical left thugs'
Trump’s chilling rhetoric — and use of “vermin” in particular — set off fresh comparisons between the ex-president and the fascist dictators of the 1940s in some media outlets and even from Biden’s camp. “Donald Trump parroted the autocratic language of Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, two dictators many US veterans gave their lives fighting, in order to defeat exactly the kind of un-American ideas Trump now champions,” campaign spokesman Ammar Moussa said in a statement.
It’s true that Trump has adopted the rhetorical strategies of some of the most reviled dictators. He dehumanizes his political enemies, has discredited the legal, political and electoral system, has demonized the press and has targeted vulnerable members of society, minorities and immigrants, as scapegoats. Like other strongmen, he presents himself as a persecuted savior of a disenfranchised sector of society that sees its traditional values and mores as under attack. Yet comparisons with fascists of the 1940s also risk caricaturing America’s current political reality that is not comparable to Europe before World War II.
The US legal system that is even now seeking to hold Trump to account would likely be a strong impediment if he’s elected president. And for all the speculation about how Trump would seek to use the military to enforce repression, America has an apolitical officer corps and constitutional and legal guarantees. Trump’s radical goals were often curtailed or moderated by the courts in his first time on issues like immigration. But if he’s reelected he’ll try to restore or expand some of his most populist policies, on immigration for instance. New plans are being drawn up to round up undocumented immigrants and to put them in detention camps to await deportation, a source familiar with the details told CNN. The story was first reported by the New York Times.
With questionable historic comparisons, Trump’s critics only fuel his bid to provoke the outrage that is essential to his political appeal. And inflammatory descriptions of Trump’s movement risk demeaning his supporters whose votes count the same as everyone else’s and who have their own legitimate hopes and grievances.
Even so, what Trump is saying can still be horrifying.
American political lore is scattered with strongmen, demagogues and extremists. Yet none has been as close to putting into practice an agenda that would so call into question the foundational principles of American democracy. Trump is not some gadfly on the political fringe. He’s the most likely Republican nominee who is trouncing his party two months before the first voters weigh in. Far from being repelled by Trump’s authoritarianism, millions of Republican voters are embracing it and believe his false claims that he won the last election and that his multiple looming criminal trials are a weaponized form of persecution to keep him from power.
Biden’s challenges broaden the implications of Trump’s extremism.
A CNN/SSRS poll released last week showed Trump narrowly leading Biden in a hypothetical rematch, with only a quarter of the country saying the president has the stamina and sharpness to be president — and only half of Democrats. The country is in a bitter mood as high prices squeeze families.
Biden’s campaign and top Democrats might be correct that as soon as voters see the direct comparison between the current president and the chaotic authoritarianism of the previous one their choice will be easy. Others dismiss panic over Trump because the last two Democratic presidents, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, needed a political rebound to win their second terms, and there’s still a year until the election. But the stakes are far higher in 2024. Republican nominees Bob Dole in 1996 and Mitt Romney in 2012 were institutionalists who respected the Constitution and would have likely practiced presidential self-restraint that is vital to the proper functioning of the political system. Trump, on the other hand, would be certain to put those principles to their most extreme stress test yet.
Trump defenders often decry alarmist accounts of his words by saying he’s taken too literally and that much of his heat is made in jest for his supporters. But this is less convincing after Trump became the first president to deny that he lost an election in which he was rejected by voters and after his call for supporters to “fight like hell” on January 6, 2021, was followed by an invasion of the US Capitol.
Trump hasn’t tempered his violent rhetoric since. His verbal and social media assaults on judges, their staff and prosecutors drip with incitement and have provoked fears for the security of his targets.
On Tuesday, the former president amplified a Truth Social post from another user calling for New York Attorney General Letitia James and Judge Arthur Engoron to be placed under citizen’s arrest.
Trump has continued to claim that the New York civil fraud trial that James brought against him and that Engoron is presiding over is “election interference” because he’s running for president and has relentlessly attacked James and Engoron on his social media website.
And the Republican Party isn’t reining him in. Presidential candidates who criticized Trump’s anti-constitutional rants like former Vice President Mike Pence have either folded their campaigns or are, like former Govs. Chris Christie and Asa Hutchinson, nowhere in the polls. More prominent GOP hopefuls like Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and ex-South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley have only criticized Trump obliquely, understanding there’s no market in the modern Republican Party for confronting Trump’s lawlessness. South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott, who was offering a more optimistic GOP message, ended his campaign on Sunday.
If, by this time next year, Trump is again president-elect, no one can say they are shocked at the kind of administration he may unleash.
Still, Trump’s campaign on Monday downplayed recent reports about plans for a second term that have referenced detailed blueprints drawn up by conservative think tanks for right-wing rule, including on how he’d weaponize the Justice Department and hollow out the civil service. Campaign managers Susie Wiles and Chris LaCivita issued a statement saying that such reports were “purely speculative and theoretical” and that no outside groups had authority to speak on behalf of the ex-president.
But the ex-president is leaving no doubt about his desire to use a second White House spell to exact revenge against his political enemies and legal authorities.
“I am your justice. … I am your retribution,” Trump told supporters at the Conservative Political Action Conference in March, creating a narrative that he was being prosecuted because he sought to shield his supporters from government persecution themselves.
The argument that, as president, Trump was entitled to exercise power just as he wanted and should be immune from accountability is laced through many of the legal filings in the run-up to his criminal trials. Last month, for instance, the ex-president and his lawyers asked the judge who will preside over next year’s federal election interference trial to throw out the charges against him on the grounds of presidential immunity. “Breaking 234 years of precedent, the incumbent administration has charged President Trump for acts … at the heart of his official responsibilities as President,” read the filing, which also argued that presidential immunity stretched to post-presidential life.
The idea that using executive authority to seek to overturn an election is a legitimate use of such power is highly contentious and would potentially destroy the bedrock principle that everyone in America, even presidents, is equal under the law. Special counsel Jack Smith’s team replied to Trump’s request last month, arguing – in language that could apply to much of the ex-president’s political actions and rhetoric – that he was an historic outlier.
The most important question in the GOP presidential race for the next few weeks isn’t if anyone can narrow Donald Trump’s imposing lead over his rivals; it’s whether Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis or former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley can surpass the other clearly enough to create a genuine one-on-one contest with the former president.
The answer to that second question likely will go a long way toward answering the first. No one in the party disputes that all the candidates face long odds of toppling the current front-runner. But many of the Republican strategists skeptical of Trump now view the race as a kind of stair-step: before any other candidate can really challenge Trump, they argue, he or she must achieve what his 2016 rivals could not by clearing the field to create a binary choice with him.
For much of this year, most Republicans assumed that DeSantis was best positioned to emerge as Trump’s principal rival. And GOP strategists supporting the Florida governor still argue that he remains the only alternative with both the breadth of appeal in the party and the national campaign organization to truly threaten Trump.
But many Republican strategists believe that DeSantis’ struggles to connect with voters, and his choice to run at Trump solely from the right, have opened a lane for Haley to eclipse the Florida governor. Some Republicans believe Haley has already done so — partly because she now appears to have a much clearer path than DeSantis to strong showings in New Hampshire and South Carolina, the two critical early states that follow the kick-off Iowa caucuses that he has prioritized.
“I think Haley is clearly the second-place candidate right now,” said veteran Republican pollster Whit Ayres.
Even about two months away from the first contest on the GOP calendar, all indications suggest that the first stage of that culling process has already occurred. An array of recent polls, both nationally and in the battleground states, signal that DeSantis and Haley have separated themselves from the rest of the candidates chasing Trump. “The field has winnowed down to where they are at the top,” said Alice Stewart, a CNN political commentator who has worked on multiple GOP presidential campaigns.
One clear measure of that separation was a 538/Washington Post/Ipsos poll of likely Republican primary voters who watched last week’s debate. Just over half of those debate-watchers said they were considering voting for Haley or DeSantis; only about a quarter said they were even considering the other three candidates on the stage, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, and South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott. Scott quit the race on Sunday.
The reason some in the party now view Haley as a stronger option than DeSantis is not because of big shifts in the national polling, where he still typically leads her as a distant second place finisher to Trump; rather it’s because of how they are positioned in the first three major contests on the calendar – Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.
DeSantis is following the same strategy relied upon by other recent GOP presidential hopefuls who ran hard to the right on social issues. Like Mike Huckabee in 2008, Rick Santorum in 2012, and Ted Cruz in 2016, DeSantis is betting his campaign predominantly on a strong showing in Iowa. Following the tracks of those predecessors, DeSantis has campaigned exhaustively in Iowa, devoted more effort to building a campaign organization there than anywhere else, and placed the highest priority on consolidating support among the state’s evangelical Christians. DeSantis has attracted the most backing from local elected officials (including Gov. Kim Reynolds, who endorsed him last week) and seems likely to win endorsements from the state’s leading religious conservatives.
Variations on that model allowed Huckabee, Santorum and Cruz to each win Iowa. But none of them came close to winning the nomination. Once each man was defined in Iowa as the candidate of evangelical social conservatives, he struggled to compete in states where those voters were not the dominant faction in the GOP electorate. Their problems immediately manifested in New Hampshire, when any momentum they acquired in Iowa crashed as if sliding into a snowbank: neither Huckabee, Santorum nor Cruz reached even 12% of the vote in the Granite State, where only about one-fourth of GOP voters identify as evangelicals (about half the level as in Iowa). Ultimately none of those past three Iowa winners captured more than a dozen states or came close to beating the front-runner in their primary races (John McCain in 2008, Mitt Romney in 2012 and Trump in 2016).
Haley’s campaign believes DeSantis has placed himself squarely on the same dead-end path. “Even if DeSantis were to do well in Iowa, which is a big ‘if’ given his current decline, he is in such a weak position in New Hampshire and South Carolina that it doesn’t matter,” Haley’s campaign argued in a memo released to reporters last week. “He has no end game.” In a sign of Haley’s improving position, her campaign this week announced it would launch a $10 million ad blitz in Iowa and New Hampshire, after spending only a little over $100,000 on its own advertising in those states so far. (A super PAC supporting Haley has made larger buys.) That dwarfs the ad purchases DeSantis’ campaign has announced, although he too has the help of a super PAC.
Many GOP strategists and operatives not affiliated with any of the campaigns agree that Haley now has more room than DeSantis to grow in New Hampshire and South Carolina. Recent polls in both states, including a CNN/SSRS survey in her home state of South Carolina, have found her with about one-fifth of the vote, roughly double DeSantis’ support.
Both Ayres and Rath say the New Hampshire electorate should be more favorable to Haley than to DeSantis. The weak showings for Huckabee, Santorum and Cruz continued a long-standing pattern in which New Hampshire GOP voters have rejected the most socially conservative candidates – even George W. Bush lost there in 2000.
Even if DeSantis finishes unexpectedly well in Iowa, “he will have done so by running to Trump’s right on abortion and gaining a significant portion of conservative evangelicals,” Dante Scala – a political scientist at the University of New Hampshire and author of “Stormy Weather,” a book on the New Hampshire primary – wrote in an email. “But that anti-abortion message does not play well here.” By contrast, Scala said, Haley’s message of seeking “consensus” on abortion “will pay off among NH GOP women (and college educated GOPers generally).” Haley has said that although she is personally “pro-life,” she does not believe there are enough votes in Congress to pass a national abortion ban. “At the federal level, it’s not realistic,” she has argued on multiple occasions.
Republicans sympathetic to DeSantis argue that it is Haley who has boxed herself in. They maintain she is rising primarily because she is consolidating the most moderate and often college-educated voters in Ayres’ “never Trump” camp. But, they maintain, she is doing so with positions — such as affirming a more hawkish foreign policy and signaling that she will downplay abortion as an issue — that will prevent her from reaching broadly into the “maybe Trump” group of voters still sympathetic to his agenda, if not his style. DeSantis’ ads attacking Haley, tellingly, have all portrayed her as insufficiently MAGA — for instance, accusing her (in claims disproved by fact-checkers) of supporting the US admitting refugees from Gaza.
DeSantis allies maintain that the Florida governor has more room to pick off “Make America Great Again” voters in today’s GOP who may be ambivalent about Trump. From their perspective, Haley is positioning herself in a way that might appeal to the pre-Trump party, but will collide with the dominant views in a GOP coalition he has reshaped in his image.
That argument points to the DeSantis campaign’s core theory: by starting on the right it will be easier for him to expand to the centrist parts of the party than it will be for Haley (or anyone else) to reach into the right after starting in the center.
Scala believes that calculation is probably correct. While any plan for dethroning Trump faces long odds, he believes, he’s dubious that Haley’s positions on issues will allow her to capture enough “soft Trump” voters to beat him, even if the race narrows to a one-on-one contest.
The competition between Haley and DeSantis, of course, will prove at most a historical footnote if neither can climb closer to Trump. Even as they jostle with each other, recent events have underscored how difficult it may be for either to do so.
Many who see Haley as the best chance to stop Trump were enthused by a recent Iowa poll showing her rising to tie DeSantis for second place there. If Haley unexpectedly passed DeSantis in Iowa, many believe, it would give her a boost of momentum that could allow her to soar in New Hampshire — and from there potentially quickly expand her national support. There’s a precedent for such a brushfire: in the 1984 Democratic primaries, then-Sen. Gary Hart parlayed a surprising (though still distant) second-place finish in Iowa to a win in New Hampshire that ignited a national surge of support. Though Hart ultimately lost the nomination, he fought toe-to-toe with Walter Mondale, who began as a commanding front-runner, until the last weekend of the contest in June.
But Haley’s chances of finishing second in Iowa took a blow when the popular governor endorsed DeSantis. Even if DeSantis finishes ahead of Haley in Iowa, many believe she would still run ahead of him in New Hampshire, especially if GOP Gov. Chris Sununu endorses her. But if Haley comes in third or lower in Iowa, the odds diminish that she will generate enough momentum from the first contest to overtake Trump in New Hampshire. And, in a cascading effect, if Haley does not exceed expectations in New Hampshire, she will likely find it difficult to beat Trump in South Carolina, even with her home-court advantage. In turn, if DeSantis underperforms in New Hampshire — which seems likely on his current trajectory — he may find it as difficult as Huckabee, Santorum and Cruz did to recover sufficiently in South Carolina.