If nothing else emerges at the Apec summit this week in terms of agreement between the leaders of the world’s two largest economies, let’s appreciate that Beijing and Washington were at least able to synchronise the timing of their confirmations that President Xi Jinping and US President Joe Biden would meet. This could become a new symbol of Sino-American cooperation now that the National Zoo’s pandas are gone.
The two sides appear set to announce something on AI usage, but remember how a certain surveillance balloon torpedoed US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s trip to Beijing and the modicum of goodwill both sides had managed to muster. Given the track record of efforts to get the two sides talking, we should not rule out the possibility of a US nuclear submarine surfacing near Hainan Island just as Xi touches down in San Francisco.
Biden administration officials have briefed reporters with fairly frank assessments. The meeting will be “contentious”, and we should expect an agreement to reopen lines of communication to be the highlight. But, with so much political capital having been spent sending high-level officials each way in recent months, let’s assume everyone stays well within bounds.
Donald Trump Jnr testified on Monday about what he called the “sexiness” of his father’s property portfolio, in his second time taking the stand in the former US president’s civil fraud trial.
Donald Trump, the front runner for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, is accused along with his two adult sons and 10 of his companies of inflating his net worth by as much as US$2.2 billion to secure better financing.
The lawsuit by New York Attorney General Letitia James seeks at least US$250 million in damages as well as restrictions that would effectively bar Trump and his adult sons from New York’s property industry.
A mass deportation operation. A new Muslim ban. Tariffs on all imported goods and “freedom cities” built on federal land.
Much of the 2024 US presidential campaign has been dominated by the myriad investigations into former president Donald Trump and the subsequent charges against him.
But with less than a year until Election Day, Trump is dominating the race for the Republican nomination and has already laid out a sweeping set of policy goals should he win a second term.
For three years, I hoped the day would never come when I would be forced to consider what The Washington Post last month called the “chillingly plausible chains of potential actions and reactions” from Donald Trump’s return as US president.
With still a year to go, polls are suggesting that the presidential election will be a rerun of the 2020 battle between Trump and Joe Biden – except Trump might win. This is the stuff of nightmares.
Donald Trump is pushing for his federal election interference trial in Washington to be televised, joining media outlets that say the American public should be able to watch the historic case unfold.
Federal court rules prohibit broadcasting proceedings, but Associated Press and other news organisations say the unprecedented case of a former president standing trial on accusations that he tried to subvert the will of voters warrants making an exception.
The Justice Department is opposing the effort, arguing that the judge overseeing the case does not have the authority to ignore the long-standing nationwide policy against cameras in federal courtrooms. The trial is scheduled to begin on March 4.
If we see Humpty Dumpty’s great fall as an analogy for the current state of economic globalisation, the question is whether it can be put together again in recognisable form.
This is an open question as rival camps, led chiefly by the United States on the one hand and China on the other, battle for geoeconomic and geostrategic influence. But we should be aware that, at worst, this could result in physical – and not just commercial – conflict.
The days of trade and tariff assaults during the Donald Trump presidency seem innocent in retrospect, now that bitter technology and investment wars are being waged.
Leonardo DiCaprio seems to enjoy playing the real-life role of Hollywood’s ultimate bachelor. He parties on luxury yachts. He plays poker with his multimillionaire pals. He goes to the most exclusive members’ clubs, from The Bird Streets Club to The Ned. And he dates the world’s most famous models – the latest of whom happens to be fashion’s new “It” girl Vittoria Ceretti.
While his romantic relationships seem to change by the month – this summer alone there have been rumours of flings with everyone from Gigi Hadid to Neelam Gill – DiCaprio surely deserves credit for his consistency when it comes to his friend group.
Who are Tiger Woods’ teen kids with ex-wife Elin Nordegren?
One of Leo’s longest bromances is with Spider-Man actor Tobey Maguire. Their friendship dates back to the 1980s when they first got their start as child actors in the entertainment industry. Sweetly, the besties have spent the past few months living the lush life on megayachts, lounging at Club 55 Beach in France and attending Beyoncé concerts together.
The fellow actor, who recently starred in Babylon with Margot Robbie and Brad Pitt, also shares a tight bond with Leo. They’ve been spending more quality time together lately, as seen in recent paparazzi pics of their outings in NYC.
What does Michael Jordan think of his son’s relationship with Larsa Pippen?
This actor is also one of Leo’s closest confidants and he was invited to join the Oscar-winning star to watch the elections at his Hollywood Hills compound back in 2020, according to Page Six.
He too has been spotted on lavish boats with Leo in recent years.
Once dubbed the “King of New York Nightlife” by Forbes, Richie Akiva is also a good pal of the Titanic actor. Per British media, he has hosted parties for celebs like Rihanna and Naomi Campbell, and was recently romantically linked to Love Island contender Arabella Chi.
His Instagram is dotted with plenty of A-listers like Justin Bieber, Jay-Z, Peggy Gou, Halsey, Alessandra Ambrosio and many more. Last week, Akiva and the Killers of the Flower Moon star reunited at Cipriani Wall Street for an event honouring Akiva, states British media.
Netflix’s Beckham: who are Posh and Becks’ 4 kids and where are they today?
Despite his reputation, the Once Upon a Time … in Hollywood actor has turned to controversial art gallery owner Hillel “Helly” Nahmad numerous times over the years. In August, he was spotted at Sardinia airport with the “disgraced” art dealer, as reported in British media.
Per The New York Times, Helly, who hails from an influential, ultra-rich family, served five months in federal prison in 2014 after pleading guilty to a charge related to a gambling ring, and was pardoned by then-president Donald Trump in 2021.
What began with a tight bear hug between defence chiefs of the United States and India on Thursday concluded with the further expansion of the two countries’ security partnership in the face of common rival China in the Indo-Pacific and beyond on Friday.
At the “2+2” US-India ministerial consultations, which brought together top diplomats and defence heads in New Delhi, the two sides agreed to discuss co-production of Stryker armoured vehicles amid tensions along India’s disputed Himalayan border with China. The move will also help India reduce its historic dependence on Russian weapons.
“An initial offer on the infantry combat vehicles has come from the US. We have expressed our interest in discussing it further to take the co-production part ahead,” senior Indian defence official Giridhar Aramane said on Friday.
Third debate, third snub: Republican candidates will gather in Miami on Wednesday as they vie to become their party’s nominee for the 2024 presidential election – once again without front-runner Donald Trump.
The ex-president, who leads the race by leaps and bounds, will skip the affair entirely and instead hold a rally nearby for supporters.
As with the last two debates, the real estate mogul says he has no need for the publicity given his large lead among his fellow Republicans.
Donald Trump complained of unfair treatment in defiant and rambling testimony on the witness box at the civil fraud trial about his New York business on Monday, prompting the judge to threaten to cut his testimony short.
Under questioning about the Trump Organisation’s accounting practices, the former US president clearly aggravated Judge Arthur Engoron, who is weighing whether to impose hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and other penalties that could hobble the property empire that vaulted Trump to prominence.
Engoron warned Trump, the front runner for the Republican nomination in the 2024 election, that he might remove him from the witness box if he did not answer questions directly.
With exactly a year to go before the US presidential election, a new string of polls painted a grim picture Sunday for Joe Biden, showing him trailing likely challenger Donald Trump among a pessimistic electorate.
The Democratic incumbent’s numbers look especially bleak among people of colour and young voters, according to a New York Times/Siena College poll.
The survey shows Biden trailing Trump by between four and 10 percentage points among voters in Nevada, Georgia, Arizona, Michigan and Pennsylvania – five crucial states that helped him defeat the Republican in 2020.
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the United States to provide more funding to help his forces counter Russia, and invited former US President Donald Trump to fly in to see the scale of the conflict for himself.
Zelensky said American soldiers could eventually be pulled into a greater European conflict with Russia if Washington did not step up support.
Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jnr both testified on Thursday that they had no involvement with documents that a judge has ruled were fraudulently manipulated to inflate the value of their father Donald Trump’s business.
In back-to-back appearances in a New York courtroom, Trump’s adult sons both said they were not involved in the questionable valuations that now threaten to hobble the real estate empire that vaulted Trump to prominence. Trump put the two in charge of the business while he served as US president from 2017 to 2021.
Donald Jnr blamed accountants, both inside and outside the company, who assembled the financial statements that were used to secure loans and insurance that allowed the company to keep functioning.
Donald Trump’s son Donald Trump Jnr testified on Wednesday that he had little to do with preparing financial documents at the family real-estate company that a judge has found fraudulent, in a trial that could hobble the former US president’s business empire.
Over the course of 1½ hours in the witness box, Donald Jnr said he provided cash-flow figures to company accountants while he and his brother Eric oversaw the Trump Organization during their father’s 2017-2021 presidency.
But he said he was not directly involved in preparing the so-called statements of financial condition of properties and other company assets, which New York state prosecutors say were fraudulently inflated to win favourable terms from lenders and insurers.
It’s been a year since Ivanka Trump announced that her time in politics was over, and that she wasn’t planning to help with her father Donald’s 2024 campaign.
The announcement hinted at the personal cost she paid for playing a public role in Trump’s political career.
An unnamed source told the New York Post at the time that Ivanka wanted out – and to live “as normal a life as she can” with her husband Jared Kushner and their three children: Arabella, 11, Joseph, nine, and Theodore, six.
Ivanka Trump or Kate Middleton – who wore the Lotus Lady dress better?
Before working in the White House, Ivanka was a businesswoman, runway model and fashion designer. In short, she was popular.
Essentially famous from the moment she was born, Ivanka even starred in a 2003 documentary about growing up rich and famous. As an avid Manhattan socialite, she was often invited to red-carpet events and was regularly pictured with other celebrities, including Vogue editor Anna Wintour.
But that all started to change when Donald launched his 2015 presidential campaign, putting his family front and centre. Ivanka joined him on the campaign trail and began making high-profile speeches at events like the Republican National Convention in July 2016.
Then, when he won the 2016 election, Donald appointed Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, as unpaid White House advisers.
Netflix’s Beckham: who are Posh and Becks’ 4 kids and where are they today?
During her time in the White House, Ivanka faced fierce criticism from those who wanted her to use her influence to stop Donald implementing some of his policies. In 2017, major retailers ditched Ivanka’s clothing brand following customer protests and weak sales, including Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Gilt and Burlington.
That same year, Saturday Night Live aired a fake advert for a fragrance called Complicit, which featured Scarlett Johansson and mocked Ivanka’s role in the White House.
The skit’s voice-over described Ivanka as “the woman who could stop all this, but won’t”. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the commercial appeared to upset Ivanka, who “couldn’t stop bemoaning it” at a senior staff meeting, Omarosa Newman, a former political aide to Donald, said in 2018, according to Vanity Fair.
“I hope to make a positive impact, I don’t know what it means to be complicit, but I hope time will prove that I have done a good job and much more importantly, my father’s administration is the success that I know it will be,” Ivanka told CBS Mornings.
What does Michael Jordan think of his son’s relationship with Larsa Pippen?
In 2018, a string of celebrities whom Ivanka followed on social media made a concerted effort to shame her over the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant children from their families at the US border.
Ivanka said that she was against her father’s family separation policy and urged him to end it, calling it “a low point” at an event hosted by the news website Axios.
When Kushner and Ivanka travelled to Rome for a wedding in 2019, other guests shunned them to avoid being in the same photos, Vanity Fair reported.
Lysandra Ohrstrom, Ivanka’s childhood best friend, said that their different stances on social issues had led to them growing apart.
“I think it’s past time that one of the many critics from Ivanka’s childhood comes forward – if only to ensure that she really will never recover from the decision to tie her fate to her father’s,” Ohrstrom wrote in a tell-all essay published in Vanity Fair.
Ivanka was hurt by how friends “turned their backs” on her during her father’s administration, an unnamed source told The New York Post after she said she wouldn’t return to politics.
After Donald lost the 2020 election, a Vanity Fair report claimed that Ivanka and Kushner would not be welcomed back in some New York circles if they tried to return to the city, citing interviews with former friends.
“Everyone with self-respect, a career, morals, respect for democracy, or who doesn’t want their friends to shame them both in private and public will steer clear,” one former friend told the magazine.
Ivanka and Kushner ended up choosing Miami, Florida, over New York City and have been spending time there with their three children since 2021.
A source told US media that she “hated all the criticism and the threats” that came with being in politics. Since leaving politics, Ivanka has been going on holiday with her family to countries including Greece, Egypt and Israel.
Ivanka and her family are staying “far away” from Donald even though they live in the same state, according to reports citing two separate and unnamed sources.
She even left him out of an Instagram post showcasing images of her daughter’s bar mitzvah celebrations in June. She has only included a picture of Donald in her Instagram Stories.
Making a comeback?
Meanwhile, Ivanka appears to be trying to get into certain social circles again – at least in California, where she was spotted partying at Kim Kardashian’s birthday bash.
Kardashian posted photos of the event on Instagram, including a group photo that included Ivanka, who wore a stylish, sparkly white two-piece set, and Jeff Bezos’ partner Lauren Sánchez.
In another photo Kardashian posted, she and Ivanka were seated next to each other and appeared to be laughing together.
All grown up! Where are Britney Spears’ sons Sean and Jayden in 2023?
Mitra Ahouraian, an entertainment lawyer to several high-profile clients, said that she wasn’t that shocked to see Ivanka and Kardashian together. “I’m not at all surprised that Ivanka has managed to re-engage with her social circles and establish herself as separate and apart from her father,” Ahouraian added.
But despite the recent social moves, Ivanka still has to contend with the potential for more court-related reputational damage.
“So, no matter how much rebranding she does, the reality is going to hit as soon as she’s back in the courtroom,” Lieb said.
Donald Trump used a speech to a Republican Jewish convention Saturday to promise reimposition of a controversial travel ban that targeted a slew of mostly Muslim countries if he gets re-elected.
“We will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country,” Trump told the audience attending the annual summit of the Republican Jewish Coalition.
Former US vice-president Mike Pence ended his cash-strapped presidential campaign on Saturday, after struggling for months to convince Republican voters he was the best alternative to the man he once served with unswerving loyalty, Donald Trump.
Pence’s surprise announcement at the Republican Jewish Coalition donor conference in Las Vegas made him the first big-name candidate to drop out. Trump is the runaway frontrunner in the race.
“Traveling over the country over the past six months, I came here to say it’s become clear to me: this is not my time. So after much prayer and deliberation, I have decided to suspend my campaign for president effective today,” Pence told the audience to gasps and, later, prolonged claps and cheers of support.
A New York judge ordered Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump to testify at the ongoing trial of the state’s US$250 million civil fraud lawsuit against the former president and his sprawling real estate company.
Justice Arthur Engoron on Friday denied Ivanka Trump’s request to strike down a subpoena for her testimony about various financial transactions she was involved with or had knowledge of. The decision by the Manhattan judge was a win for New York Attorney General Letitia James, who filed the suit last year.
The former president’s daughter was initially a defendant in the suit, but she won dismissal by an appeal court earlier this year.
The New York judge presiding over Donald Trump’s fraud trial put the former US president on the witness stand on Wednesday to answer for his out-of-court commentary – finding he wasn’t credible within minutes and fining him US$10,000.
The stunning development came after Judge Arthur Engoron learned Trump had potentially violated an order not to comment on his court staff, days after fining him US$5,000 for doing so on Friday.
Trump’s lawyers said he had been talking about Michael Cohen outside the courtroom Wednesday morning when he decried the “very partisan” person sitting “alongside the judge,” as Engoron’s law clerk does. After the lunch break, the judge said he wanted to question Trump himself.
Donald Trump’s one-time lawyer turned bitter foe Michael Cohen took the witness box on Tuesday in the business fraud case against the former US president, accusing his ex-boss of “arbitrarily” inflating his net worth.
It was the first face-to-face meeting between Trump and his former right-hand man, nicknamed the “Pitbull”, since Cohen went to jail and became a vocal critic of the New York real estate tycoon.
The pair mostly avoided eye contact as Cohen testified in the civil fraud case in which Trump and his two eldest sons are accused of exaggerating the value of the Trump Organisation’s real estate assets to receive more favourable bank loans and insurance terms.