BRIT UFC champion Leon Edwards is eyeing a shock spot on the promotion's 300th pay-per-view card - and a second world title.
The Brummie is just a month away from defending his welterweight title in the main even of UFC 296 in Las Vegas against fan favourite Colby Covington.
Edwards, 32, plans to end the Donald Trump-loving Covington's welterweight title hopes once and for all in their Sin City showdown.
And he hopes an emphatic knockout of 'Chaos' will tee up a short-notice shot at a second world title at UFC 300.
When asked about moving up in weight to challenge for the middleweight title, Rocky told Sky Sports: “100 per cent, definitely.
“I feel especially with someone like [Sean] Strickland.
"And I think he’s fighting [Dricus] Du Plessis soon, so either of them two would be great to fight.
“I’m big myself. I feel like that would be perfect.
"I feel like me going out and being double-champ, first-ever from the UK to do it.
After being pressed on a potential timeline for the fight, he said: “Next would be perfect, to be honest.
"The division right now, there’s no one that’s exciting in the division so for me to go out there to do that, that would be perfect.
Jamaican-born Brit Edwards claimed the welterweight title with an emphatic Hail Mary knockout of former pound-for-pound king Kamaru Usman last August.
His first title defence was a hometown trilogy fight against The Nigerian Nightmare, whom he defeated via majority decision.
Two-time welterweight title challenger Covington was the backup fighter for the bout and was anointed as Edwards' next opponent hours after The O2 Arena tussle.
Edwards was left baffled by Dana White's decision, saying: “I don't know how Colby makes sense.
“He hasn't fought for more than a year and half.
"There are other active guys in the division.
THE UFC's latest trip to Madison Square Garden once again provided another historical night.
The MMA leader held its penultimate pay-per-view event of the year, UFC 295, in front of a sold-out crowd a The World's Most Famous Arena early on Sunday morning.
Two titles - the light-heavy and heavyweight belts - were claimed in blistering fashion in the main and co-main events of the evening.
Alex Pereira became the fastest two-weight champion in UFC history with a second-round TKO victory over former 205lbs king Jiri Prochazka in the card's showpiece bout.
And in the co-main event, Tom Aspinall became only the third Brit to win a title in MMA's top promotion with a brutal first-round victory over fellow heavy hitter Sergei Pavlovich.
UFC 295's main card produced FIVE sensational finishes - each of which blew the roof off of MSG.
But viewers at home missed several notable moments, which SunSport were lucky enough to catch in person.
Check them out below.
Former president of the United States Donald Trump decided to rock up to MSG just after the prelims were in the books.
Trump, 77, received a chorus of cheers every time he came up on the big screen - with some being bigger than the pops fighters received.
But it was his entrance into the arena which nearly blew the roof off the mecca of combat sports.
Fans went bananas during the non-aired transition between the prelims to the main card as Trump strolled in with UFC president Dana White and former FOX News host Tucker Carlson by his side.
And the UFC gave him a WWE-worthy entrance by blaring out Kid Rock's 'American Badass', a former theme of the Undertaker's, as he rolled in.
MSG erupted in a cacophony of noise after Aspinall landed what proved to be a life-changing hammer fist on a fallen Pavlovch, who he'd knocked down with a peach of a right hand.
Those in the VVIP seats in the vicinity of White and Trump couldn't believe their eyes. White's reaction itself was very telling to just how far he thinks Aspinall can go.
As an emotional Aspinall wheeled away in delight and tried to process his historic achievement, White immediately jumped out of his seat.
And SunSport caught the veteran promoter - who sung the Wigan warrior's praises in the post-fight press conference - high-fiving Kid Rock, who was also in awe of the stoppage.
Newly crowned WWE United States champ Logan Paul made a subdued entrance into the arena midway through the main card.
But what the broadcast didn't show was that the YouTube sensation - who was accompanied by his fiancee Nina Agdal - proudly wore his world title on his right shoulder.
Paul being in attendance was far from a shock given the UFC's recent merger with the WWE.
Expect more big-name wrestlers to be in attendance at UFC shows going forward.
Steve-O is a long-time fan of mixed martial arts' top promotion - so much so that he was one of the few celebs in attendance for the early prelims.
The world-famous Jackass star was enthralled as he took in the early fights, which he dipped in and out of to go backstage and take selfies with fans.
Perhaps an even bigger fan of the sport than Steve-O is rapper Action Bronson, who is pals with bantamweight title contender Marlon Vera.
The 39-year-old, who has undergone a dramatic body transformation in recent years, was in the cageside VIP seats from the first fight until the culmination of the main event.
We rarely saw him take a bathroom break, something we couldn't say about ourselves.
A FORMER US official claims that a hitman hired by Iran tried to assassinate him for £250,000 in an effort to take out its enemies.
John Bolton, former national security adviser, believes Iran tried to pay someone to either kidnap and kill him, potentially on US soil.
Since the Israel Hamas war broke out following the October 7 attacks by Hamas - tensions between the US and Iran have been rising.
Almost weekly Iranian-backed rebels have attacked American bases in Syria and Iraq.
Now Iran seems to have turned to a different form of proxy fighter; a hired gun, in what Bolton describes as an "act of war".
But Bolton does not appear to be the only target, as the country appears to be hiring hitmen around the world in an effort to intimidate and take out its enemies.
A video posted online by a channel associated with the Iran Revolutionary Guard vows to kill former US officials like Bolton.
One of them is former president Donald Trump, as part of a plan to avenge the 2020 assassination of terrorism mastermind Qassem Soleimani.
The FBI has an arrest warrant out for the Iranian officer who they believe hired the hitman to take out Bolton.
The alleged plot would have him travel to Washington DC, corner Bolton in a garage and kill him.
Bolton said: "This was not internet chatter. This was a negotiation to murder an American citizen, a former government official."
While the assassin turned out to be an FBI informant, Bolton still has Secret Service protection stationed outside of him home to protect him from the ongoing threat.
The FBI along with other intelligence agencies told CBS 60 minutes that Iran's assassination efforts are become "more frequent" and "bolder".
Counter Terror police in Britain have also seen an increase in similar attacks.
Fifteen kidnapping and assassination attempts have been foiled on UK soil in the last year alone.
Head of UK Counter Terrorism Matt Jukes told CBS: "I have been involved in national security policing for over 20 years. What we've seen in the last 18 months is a real acceleration."
"I think we're always gonna see this collaboration between criminal organisations. We know that this will not always be a direct line from a state organisation to a threat to a potential kidnapping."
A foreign intelligence agency shared an intercepted call detailing how Tehran is hiring killers.
An Iranian smuggler from Urmia, near the Turkish border, can be heard telling intelligence agents that he was approached by Iran's Revolutionary Guard.
They offered to turn a blind eye to his smuggling crimes if he helped them.
The smuggler can be heard saying: "Their request was that I find people who could work for them. What kind of work?
"'Anything. Like: catching someone for us so they can be beaten up or gotten rid of.'"
One such person is alleged drug dealer Mansour Rasouli.
He reportedly agreed to assassinate three candidates chosen by Iran in exchange for a million dollars.
Weeks later he was kidnapped and interrogated, apparently by Israeli intellignece.
In his confession tape he identified the targets: "One is an Israeli at the embassy in Istanbul, Turkey. Another one is an American general in Germany. And one is a journalist in France."
DONALD Trump's older sister, Maryanne Trump Barry, a former federal judge, was found dead in her home on Monday at the age of 86.
Barry was the eldest of the Trump siblings and often supported her brother's business ambitions while also becoming a major critic of his during the final year of his presidency.
Her nephew Donald Jr told reporters it was a "rough day for myself and my family" as he was questioned about Barry's death on Monday.
“I’m very close with her grandson. We hang out all the time. And so it’s obviously a rough day for that,” he said.
While Don Jr. appeared to have remained close with Barry's family, his dad and the ex-judge's relationship soured just three years before her death.
Secret recordings of Barry criticizing her brother in 2018 and 2019 during a conversation with niece, Mary L. Trump, became public in 2020 following the release of Mary's memoir about the family.
Barry tore into her brother, saying in one recording that all he wants to do is "appeal to his base."
"He has no principles. None. None. And his base, I mean my God, if you were a religious person, you want to help people. Not do this," she said.
Barry said Trump's strict border policies were "cruel," calling them "phony" and described her brother as "a brat."
"It's the phoniness and this cruelty. Donald is cruel," Barry said.
Barry graduated from the Hofstra University School of Law and had a decades-long career as a federal prosecutor and federal judge.
In 1974 Barry became an assistant United States attorney for the District of New Jersey and was initially one of only two women out of 62 lawyers in the office.
She was nominated to the US Court of Appeals in 1999 by then-President Bill Clinton.
She retired in 2019 just 10 days after the Second Circuit Court of Appeals launched an investigation into her for judicial misconduct and tax evasion.
Because of her retirement, the investigation automatically closed.
"In concluding these proceedings, the Judicial Council does not reach the merits of complaints," the judicial council of the Second US Circuit Court of Appeals said at the time.
The investigation was prompted by a report that Barry and her siblings, including Donald Trump, were participating in tax schemes to maximize their inheritances.
The Trumps were allegedly receiving millions in untaxed gifts from their father and avoiding a 55 percent tax on gifts over a certain value.
Barry died at her Upper East Side apartment in New York City around 4 am on Monday.
She was found in her bedroom and was pronounced dead at the scene.
Medical examiners will determine her cause of death, but there were no signs of trauma.
The former President has yet to comment on the sad news but his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., spoke on it briefly after leaving a Manhattan courthouse, saying it was a "rough day for myself and my family."
Don Jr. said he learned of the news as he arrived to the courthouse to testify in a civil fraud trial.
"I’m very close with her grandson. We hang out all the time. And so it’s obviously a rough day for that," he said.
Born in 1937, Barry was the first child of Fred Trump Sr. and Mary Trump, followed by Fred Jr., Elizabeth, Donald, and Robert.
Fred Jr. died in 1981 of a heart attack caused by his alcohol use. He was 42 years old.
Robert was hospitalized in 2020 after suffering a stroke and died on August 15 at age 71.
The former president said in a written statement: "He was not just my brother, he was my best friend."
DONALD Trump's sister Maryanne Trump Barry has died at 86 in New York City.
Maryanne Trump Barry was found unresponsive in her Fifth Avenue apartment around 4 am on Monday.
Barry was found in her bedroom and was pronounced dead on the scene.
Medical examiners will determine her cause of death, but there were no signs of trauma.
Her death followed a call about a person in cardiac arrest according to ABC News.
Barry was a federal judge and the sister of the former president.
She was born in 1937 and held top judicial positions for presidents Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton during her career.
In 1974 Barry became an assistant United States attorney for the District of New Jersey and was one of only two women out of 62 lawyers in the office.
Barry retired from her position as a federal judge in 2019 after an investigation into tax fraud.
The investigation was prompted by a report that Barry and her siblings, including Donald Trump, were participating in tax schemes to maximize their inheritances.
The Trumps were allegedly receiving millions in untaxed gifts from their father and avoiding a 55 percent tax on gifts over a certain value.
However, because of her retirement, the investigation was immediately dropped.
Barry didn't make many comments about Donald Trump, but she was usually supportive of his business endeavors.
However, she was caught in 2018 saying he has "no principles" and blasting his "goddamn tweets and lying."
The audio was obtained by The Washington Post and recorded by the president's niece Mary Trump.
"All he wants to do is appeal to his base," she said.
"He has no principles. None. None. And his base, I mean my God, if you were a religious person, you want to help people. Not do this."
Barry also called her brother a "brat" and said she did his homework and got him into college.
“He was a brat. I did his homework for him," she said.
"I drove him around New York City to try to get him into college.
Barry's death is one of multiple personal losses former President Donald Trump has faced in recent years.
His younger brother, Robert S. Trump died while he was president in 2020, and his first wife Ivana Trump died in 2022.
Trump Jr. told reporters after testifying in a civil fraud trial that he had been informed of the news as he pulled up to the courthouse Monday morning.
“I’m very close with her grandson. We hang out all the time. And so it’s obviously a rough day for that,” he said.
CHAOS ensued when a group of protestors stormed the US Capitol to contest the 2020 Presidential Election results.
Self-proclaimed "QAnon Shaman" Jacob Chansley was one of several rioters who were arrested in relation to the incident.
Who is 'QAnon Shaman' Jacob Chansley?
Referring to himself as the "QAnon Shaman," Jacob Chansley is one of the conspiracy theorists associated with the US Capitol Protests.
Hailing from Phoenix, Arizona, he is also a part-time actor and Donald Trump supporter.
From September 2005 to October 2007, Chansley served in the US Navy.
Under the pen names Loan Wolf and Jacob Angeli, he self-published two books.
Before the January 6 protests, he held QAnon rallies in his native city.
On January 6, 2021, Chansley was recognized as one of the protestors who stormed the US Capitol Hill.
During the siege, he made his way into the Senate chamber where he was seen standing behind the dais where just moments earlier Mike Pence and Nancy Pelosi had been.
While participating in the protests, he donned a costume that consisted of a bison-horned headdress, war-painted face, and a six-foot spear with the American flag tied to it.
Due to his attire, he became one of the more recognizable protestors.
On November 17, 2021; he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 41 months in prison.
Regarding the attack, Chansley told 60 Minutes: "My actions were not an attack on this country.
"That is incorrect. That is inaccurate entirely. My actions on January 6, how would I describe them? Well, I sang a song.
"And that’s part of shamanism. It’s about creating positive vibrations in a sacred chamber.
"I also stopped people from stealing and vandalizing that sacred space, the Senate. Okay?
He added: "I consider myself a lover of my country. I consider myself a believer in the Constitution.
"I consider myself a believer in truth and our founding principles. I consider myself a believer in God.
"Because it was my intention to bring divinity and to bring God back into the Senate.
"I developed a lot of sympathy for Donald Trump because it seemed like the media was picking on him.
"It seemed like the establishment was going after him unnecessarily or unfairly and I have been a victim of that all of my life, whether it be at school or at home.
"So in many ways, I identified with a lot of the negative things he was going through and I honestly believed and still believe that he cares about the constitution, and he cares about the American people."
When was the QAnon Shaman released?
On March 30, 2023, Chansley was released early after serving 27 months incarcerated.
On November 13 of the same year, he announced his candidacy as a Libertarian in the 2024 election for a seat in Arizona’s 8th Congressional District.
ALIBABA founder Jack Ma went from a teacher earning $12 a month to one of the world's richest men - now worth a staggering $25billion.
In one of China's most extraordinary rags-to-riches tales, Jack, 59, was rejected from dozens of jobs - including one at KFC - before landing on his feet and finding success with his third internet company.
Former US President Donald Trump and Jack Ma in January 2017Credit: Copyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Once China's richest person, he ranks at number seven on China's 100 Richest 2023, published by Forbes on Wednesday.
With no computing or engineering background, Jack is an unlikely tech giant.
Growing up poor in Communist China, he had no status, no money and no connections.
But in 1972, Richard Nixon visited China - and turned his home city of Hangzhou into a mecca for tourists.
It gave young Jack his first glimpse of the world beyond China.
He was given the name "Jack" by an American tourist who could not pronounce his name.
Unlike most Chinese entrepreneurs, Jack was not educated in the US and education in China was the most promising path for him.
But he failed his college entrance exam twice - and was rejected for dozens of jobs.
He once told an interviewer: "I went for a job with the KFC, they said, 'you're no good'.
Finally passing on his third attempt, he got a place at the Hangzhou Teacher's Institute before working as an English teacher at a local university, earning just $12 a month.
In the meantime, Jack had developed a keen interest in the new age of the internet after using it for the first time in America in 1995 while working as a translator.
"I never touched a keyboard before. I never used a computer before," he told 60 Minutes.
Jack had no idea how to use a computer - but his American friends told him to type anything into the search engine.
When he was baffled to find there were no Chinese results for the word "beer", he decided to create an internet company for China.
"I came to Hangzhou with $1 in my pocket, scared, worried," he said.
"I came back and I said, 'I want to do something called internet'."
Although his first two ventures failed, he eventually came up with a vision for an online marketplace he called "Alibaba" - allowing sellers to post product listings that customers could buy directly from.
Jack had convinced 17 of his pals and former students to invest in the idea - despite never using the internet.
With just over $50,000 in seed money, his company was born.
By October 1999, the company had raised $5million from Goldman Sachs and $20million from SoftBank.
And in 2005, Yahoo invested $ billion in Alibaba in exchange for about a 40 per cent stake in the company.
Alibaba went public on September 19, 2013 - and the company's $150-billion IPO was the largest offering for a US-listed company in the history of the New York Stock Exchange.
It also made Jack the richest man in China, with an estimated worth of $25billion at the time.
Today, Alibaba is worth around $220billion.
An influential figure in China's business community, he announced that he would retire from Alibaba in September 2018 and pursue educational work and philanthropy.
Despite his success, Jack claims he has been rejected from Harvard Business School ten times.
And he hit the headlines in late 2020 when he vanished from the public eye amid a crackdown on his businesses by Chinese authorities.
He has kept a low profile over the last three years after criticising China's regulators and banks.
Jack told a financial conference that traditional banks had a "pawn-shop mentality".
Just a month later, Ant's planned £26bn stock market flotation was sensationally cancelled at the last minute by Chinese authorities.
They cited "major issues" over regulating the firm - but it was seen as a retaliation for his criticism of the Chinese financial industry and the regime.
When Jack mysteriously disappeared from the public eye, rumours exploded that he had been placed under house arrest or otherwise detained.
In November last year, reports suggested he had been living a low profile life in Tokyo, Japan, for nearly six months - and he was only occasionally travelling abroad.
But in March, he made a rare public appearance at a school in his home city of Hangzhou - where Alibaba's HQ is located.
Once the richest man in China, Jack gave up control of financial technology giant Ant Group earlier this year.
DONALD TRUMP received a chorus of cheers as he made his way into Madison Square Garden for UFC 295.
The 45th President of the United States was in attendance at "The World's Most Famous Arena" on Saturday night to watch the promotion's historic 30th anniversary show.
Trump made a subdued entrance into the arena shortly before the stacked main card kicked off.
Secret Service agents, who are assigned to all former presidents, flanked him as he made his way to his seat.
And he was greeted with huge cheers by fans when he came up on the big screen.
Excited MMA fans in attendance then started chanting "USA, USA, USA."
Trump - a pal of UFC president Dana White's - has been a regular at UFC events over the years.
He was in the VIP seats at UFC 287 and UFC 290 in April and July respectively.
When recalling his Republican National Convention speech for Trump, White told Tucker Carlson: "This guy has been so good to me it's unexplainable.
"He's been a very good friend to me since the day I met him.
"When we bought this company it had such a bad stigma attached to it and the sport that we couldn't even get into venues, they didn't want us.
"Donald Trump saw that this thing could possibly be big, plus he's a sports guy who loves sports, and he offered us to come do the event at the Trump Taj Mahal at Atlantic City.
"He cut us a very fair deal and we went down there and did two events with him where he showed up for the first fight and stayed until the last fight.
"Imagine back then; Trump brand is way up, UFC brand is way down, but he took us in and he was great.
"Everything that ever happened to me in my career after that day, the first guy to reach out and say congratulations was Donald Trump; whether it was a letter or one time we were on the cover of the New York Times.
"He said, 'I always knew you were going to do it, Dana, congratulations.' And he sent me the paper. He sent me a pen one time congratulating me.
"He's always sending something to say congratulations; a guy who is genuinely happy for your success."
MCDONALD'S fans looking to buy a Happy Meal this month can look forward to a Halloween-themed toy.
Customers can get a different Squishmallows toy in Happy Meals this month.
Each Squishmallows has its own name and a unique bio.
Every happy meal also comes with a dot-to-dot activity this Autumn.
Children will also need to grab some coloured pencils and colour in the Squishmallow squad.
Any customer who purchases one or more Happy Meals will become entitled to purchase an additional toy in the same transaction.
BURGER DEAL McDonald's UK menu prices explained: How much does a Big Mac & a McFlurry cost?
But only one additional toy is allowed per transaction regardless of the number of Happy Meals bought.
What are Happy Meals?
The McDonald's Happy Meal is designed for kids and comes with a main, side and drink.
There's a range of options to pick from too.
You have a choice of fish fingers, chicken McNuggets or veggie dippers with an apple and grapefruit bag or carrot bag side.
Drink options include water, milk or a Fruit Shoot.
You can pick a Happy Meal up for £3.59, depending on where you live - if you order in branch or for delivery.
Maccies regularly changes its Happy Meal toys so customers can pick up different figurines across the year.
Last month's promotion was Top Trumps card games and in the past, the meal has come with Dreamworks-themed and Warner Bros.-themed miniatures.
What toy can I get with my McDonald's Happy Meal this month?
Customers can get a different Squishmallows toy in Happy Meals until October, 31.
As well as a dot-to-dot activity, customers can grab some colour pencils and colour in the Squishmallow Halloween squad.
Soft, cute, and a little bit spooky… The Squishmallows have arrived in Happy Meal to celebrate Halloween.
As part of the launch, McDonald's has also released a TV highlighting the new toys.
You can also join our new Sun Money Facebook group to share stories and tips and engage with the consumer team and other group members.
KIM Kardashian has thrown major shade at her ex-husband Kanye West as she lists her future partner's ideal traits.
The Kardashians star and the rapper finalized their divorce nearly a year ago in November 2022.
Now Kim, 44, has come clean about the necessary traits of her future partner.
In a scene featured on the newest episode of the Hulu show, the reality star opened up about her desires to her friends while taking a flight on her private jet.
She told her hair stylist Chris Appleton and his partner: "I have a manifest list so it has good qualities so I can manifest good f**king guys."
Kim's team replied: "Okay let's see your manifest list," to which she responded: "Okay," whipping out her phone to read out the qualities she looks for.
Later, in a confessional the mother of four explained: "I do think the list is ever-growing and evolving and I won't stop until he fits every single one of those."
Back on the plane, the Skims founder recited from her list, claiming she wants someone who both "calms" her and "drives her wild."
"No airing out our dirty laundry, a person who accepts you and pushes you to your highest potential."
Kim's mention of "airing dirty laundry" was a potential jab at her ex-husband Kanye West, 46, who toward the end of their relationship brought all of their private problems to the public eye.
He posted a screenshot of North from one of her TikTok videos and tagged Kim in the shot.
Kim, who filed for divorce against the rapper in February 2021, called Kanye’s “constant attacks” on her “hurtful” in an Instagram Story.
She wrote, in part: “Kanye’s constant attacks on me in interviews and on social media is actually more hurtful than any TikTok North might create. Kanye's obsession with trying to control and manipulate our situation so negatively and publicly is only causing further pain for all."
Kim and Kanye welcomed daughter North, now eight, in 2013 - with kids Chicago, four, Saint, six, and Psalm, two, following soon after.
In 2020, the Donda singer announced that he was running for president through his own party - the Birthday Party, after earlier befriending Donald Trump.
Later that month, Kanye held a political rally in North Charleston, SC, and broke down in tears as he claimed at the controversial event that Kim considered aborting their eldest child North.
"Even if my wife were to divorce me after this speech, she brought North into the world, even when I didn't want to. She stood up, and she protected that child," he cried.
He yelled to the crowd: "She had the pills in her hand."
A day later, Ye posted a string of now-deleted tweets per PEOPLE claiming that Kim and Kris Jenner were sending a doctor to his Wyoming compound, where he had been staying, and were trying to "lock me up."
Kim publicly addressed Kanye's 2020 speech soon after: "As many of you know, Kanye has bi-polar disorder," she wrote on her Instagram Stories.
"Anyone who has this or has a loved one in their life who does, knows how incredibly complicated and painful it is to understand."
Kanye later issued an apology, tweeting: "I would like to apologize to my wife Kim for going public with something that was a private matter.
"I did not cover her like she has covered me. To Kim I want to say I know I hurt you. Please forgive me. Thank you for always being there for me."
In February 2021, after much speculation, Kim filed for divorce following nearly seven years of marriage and a year of tumultuous ups and downs - including the failed presidential campaign.
The KUWTK alum moved on with Pete Davidson after the divorce, first kissing on live TV when she made her hosting debut on SNL in October 2021, which enraged Kanye.
But the couple parted ways last summer, and the TV star has been single ever since.
Meanwhile, Kanye secretly married architect Bianca Censori in January 2023.
NIGEL Farage's feud with Matt Hancock has been revealed as the politicians go head-to-head in an I'm A Celeb popularity battle.
Brexit Party leader Farage has just been confirmed among the full line-up going into the Australian jungle for the new ITV series.
And he'll hope to do better than disgraced former health secretary Hancock's third-place finish last year, having previously branded his rival a "pipsqueak".
Hancock faced flak from campmates, lost the Conservative Party whip for taking part and was repeatedly voted by viewers to be forced into grisly "Bushtucker Trials".
These included taking on snakes, his top fear, and eating animal parts such as a fish eye taco, a sheep vagina and a camel's penis.
Farage has been warned he faces similar discomfort, including by ex-Tory MP Nadine Dorries - another former I'm A Celebrity contestant.
But he has taken up the challenge after revealing he was finally considering an offer - and revelations about his frequent clashes with Hancock suggest extra motivation for performing well.
Former Ukip leader Farage has often denounced Hancock over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic while in office.
Leaked WhatsApp messages earlier this year suggested Hancock's team asked whether they could "lock up" Farage, after the then-health secretary raised an alert about him.
That came in response to Farage posting on Twitter a video of himself enjoying a pint in Kent, on the day pubs reopened after a partial lifting of lockdown restrictions.
Farage had been filmed a fortnight earlier attending a Donald Trump rally in the United States and rules at the time meant people coming into England from overseas should isolate for 14 days.
He insisted at the time he had completed 14 days of isolation and tested negative - though admitted to the Telegraph in March he was "probably in breach", but also hit out at "pipsqueak" Hancock.
Farage said: "After the first set of lockdowns I wasn’t really prepared for some little pipsqueak like Matt Hancock to tell me how to live my life, quite frankly.
"The idea that headmaster Hancock was after me - I love it."
Just a month into lockdown restrictions, back in April 2020, Hancock publicly called for Hancock to be sacked as health secretary.
He talked about "the smell of failure" being in the air as he ridiculed claims about PPE supplies and NHS resources, adding: "The time has come to remove Hancock. This must happen quickly."
Hancock remained health secretary until resigning in June 2021 after The Sun revealed images of him cuddling and kissing senior aide Gina Coladangelo in breach of lockdown restrictions.
He left his wife Martha, mother of his three children, for Coladangelo who greeted him when voted out of the jungle last November.
Farage himself has faced a backlash from some I'm A Celeb fans after his imminent arrival was announced, with some boycott vows.
Hancock has announced he's stepping down from his West Suffolk seat at the next general election, amid local opposition.
He's taken part in other reality TV shows while remaining an MP including Celebrity SAS: Who Dares Wins, which he described as "one of the most difficult things I've ever done".
ONLOOKERS have claimed that a courtroom sketch artist held a grudge against the Trump family after the drawings caused controversy — a seemingly common trend among several celebrity depictions over the years.
On Wednesday, Ivanka Trump appeared at the legal proceedings to testify in the 45th president's civil fraud trial.
Her actions come as part of the $250million lawsuit that accuses her father, former President Donald Trump, and 18 other co-defendants of committing fraud by inflating assets on financial documents with the alleged goal of better terms on insurance policies, per ABC News.
Ivanka quickly became of particular focus after court sketches were released from Wednesday's hearing.
Viewers quickly took to social media to argue the sketch was an unflattering representation of the former president's daughter.
"Someone else who's insanely jealous of Ivanka Trump and her breathtaking beauty must have drawn this court sketch," one person said.
Another added: "Damn what did Ivanka Trump do to that court sketch artist cause this feels like a grudge."
"Ivanka Trump in a court sketch from her testimony today: Some artists have not taken too kindly to defendants and witnesses in recent times. This is one of the better portrayals," a third wrote.
Other renderings of former President Trump, Donald Jr., and Eric could also be seen from previous hearings on November 1, 2, and 3, per Reuters.
They appeared to be drawn similarly to Ivanka's November 8 depiction, seemingly by the same artist.
The artist was confirmed this week to be Elizabeth Williams, who spoke out after criticisms from former White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany, who dubbed the sketches a "travesty" and said the former president's in particular "looks nothing like Trump," per Newsweek.
Williams told the publication that she is "getting used" to blowback over sketches.
"This dumping on court artists has now become part of our business," she said.
Despite the controversy, Ivanka and the Trump family aren't the only celebrities to have had mixed responses from onlookers over sketch artists' depiction of them at court hearings over the years.
The U.S. Sun has gathered a comprehensive list of at least six other public figures and pop culture icons who have had sketches of their time in court that some fans later deemed similarly unflattering.
While defending themselves in a $108 million defamation lawsuit in April 2022 brought about by model and television personality Blac Chyna, the Kardashians appeared at a court hearing and were rendered in a sketch, per Daily Mail.
Kim, Kyle, Khloe, and Kris were pictured side-by-side as the proceedings took place in the image, with Kris seemingly wearing a mask.
The sketch went viral online, with several users bashing the depiction — some going as far as to say they "hated" the drawing and felt the famous family looked "deformed."
Artist Mona Shafer Edwards defended her work to the outlet, noting the nature of her job is more complex than viewers often give credit to.
Pop music icon Taylor Swift also seemingly fell victim to a controversial court sketch during a one-week trial in 2017 where she counter-sued David Mueller, a former Denver DJ who accused Swift of false accusations that he groped her at a photo shoot, per Page Six.
The judge ruled in favor of Swift, and Mueller allegedly sent out a $1 Sacagawea coin to the legendary singer-songwriter as payment.
Swift was drawn in court with her blonde hair and bangs with a black, multi-colored polo.
Colorado artist Jeff Kandyba defended his drawings to local Fox affiliate KDVR.
"A person like Taylor Swift, who is very pretty — has perfectly proportioned dimensions on the face — is actually much harder [to sketch]," he told the station in defense of his work despite criticism online.
"It's hard. Some people are just much easier to draw than others."
Like Swift, Rihanna also fell victim to a controversial sketch representation during a court hearing in 2009 where her ex-boyfriend Chris Brown pleaded guilty to assaulting her, per The Guardian.
The controversial drawing (shown at the top of the page) saw the music superstar sporting short hair at the time with sunglasses, a pearl necklace, and a black dress.
Users on a Reddit thread discussing controversial celebrity drawings criticized the "long neck" given to Rihanna.
It's unclear who the artist was behind the depiction and if they ever spoke out to defend their work after supposed criticisms.
It's also unlikely that businesswoman and media personality Paris Hilton was happy with the court sketch of her in 2007 when she appeared for violating her probation, Reuters reported.
In May of that year, a judge ruled that Hilton spend 45 days in jail for knowingly driving without a valid license after a traffic offense from a previous instance.
Hilton was depicted with features that caused controversy online, with some on the same Reddit thread noting that she appeared to look like someone else entirely.
"I thought the Paris Hilton one was Jenna Jameson," a user wrote.
Another who was unable to escape the sketch controversy was famed singer-songwriter and actress Dolly Parton.
Parton was drawn at a court hearing in 1985 over a copyright lawsuit, according to images shown by Daily Mail.
The famed celeb's hair appeared to take on a different shape in the drawing than it did in photographs captured from the time around the proceedings.
It's unclear who the artist was, but it's likely the drawings didn't earn praise from Parton.
Tech mogul Elon Musk also received a controversial depiction through a court sketch in December 2019.
Musk was sued for the alleged defamation of British spelunker Vernon Unsworth, who was known for his actions in the rescue attempt of a soccer coach and 12 boys from a flooded Thailand cave in 2018, per Daily Mail.
A judge ruled that Musk did not defame the spelunker, but he did not leave the situation with what some might consider a flattering sketch.
Musk could be seen wearing a black suit with a white dress shirt, frowning, and looking off into the distance.