Donald Trump’s social media platform Truth Social has lost $73m since its launch in early 2022, a securities filing revealed on Monday, and is struggling to find additional funds.
The ex-president had announced the launch of his social media app in October 2021, saying it would “stand up to big tech” companies such as Twitter and Facebook that previously barred him.
But a filing by Digital World Acquisition Corp, the special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) that plans to merge with Truth Social’s owner, Trump Media & Technology Group’s (TMTG), showed the social media company has been losing money heavily.
In 2022, Truth Social posted a loss of $50m, with net sales of just $1.4m. It lost $23m in the first half of this year, with net sales of $2.3m.
Digital World Acquisition also revealed that the Securities and Exchange Commission, the US’s top financial watchdog, was looking at the deal in a move that “could cause us to be unable to consummate the business combination”.
If the merger collapses, the filing states, Truth Social will struggle to find new funds. TMTG’s independent registered public accounting firm has indicated that the financial condition raises substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern, according to the filing.
The company also eliminated several positions in March, the filing said, adding that the action followed a review of all departments, most significantly impacting TMTG’s streaming video on demand and infrastructure teams.
ichael Luttig knows the eye of the storm. On the night of 4 January 2021, the retired federal judge advised Mike Pence, the vice-president, against trying to overturn the results of the presidential election. Last year on live television he delivered compelling testimony to the congressional panel investigating the January 6 insurrection.
Now, with less than a year until the nation goes back to the polls, Luttig recognises that the battle to save the American republic from the demagoguery of Donald Trump is far from over – and he is more worried than ever before.
Luttig, 69, is an unlikely hero of the resistance. Born in Tyler, Texas, he was assistant counsel to the president under the Republican Ronald Reagan, and clerked for then judge Antonin Scalia and the supreme court justice Warren Burger. He served on the US court of appeals for the fourth circuit from 1991 to 2006 and was committed to an “originalist” interpretation of the constitution.
He endorsed the George W Bush White House’s post-September 11 policy of declaring terrorism suspects “enemy combatants” so that they could be held by the military without charges. He was an advocate of the death penalty – including for the man who killed Luttig’s own 63-year-old father, John, in a carjacking outside his home.
Luttig retired in 2006 and entered the private sector, working for Boeing and Coca-Cola before sliding into what seemed a quiet retirement. But at the dawn of 2021, America was on the brink of a constitutional crisis after Trump lost the election to Joe Biden and pressured Pence to reject the outcome.
On the night of 4 January, Luttig received a call from old friend Richard Cullen, who was working as a lawyer for Pence. Cullen explained that John Eastman, who had previously clerked for Luttig, was making the claim that Pence had the constitutional authority to stop certification of the election results.
The vice-president duly stood his ground and spurned Trump, who reportedly branded Pence a “wimp” and complained: “I don’t want to be your friend any more if you don’t do this.” On January 6 a mob of Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol and demanded that Pence be hanged, leaving a trail of death, destruction and excrement, but the results got certified all the same.
As Biden was sworn in, proclaiming that “democracy has prevailed”, and Trump slunk back to his Mar-a-Lago redoubt in Florida, there were hopes that the worst of the storm had passed. But it soon became apparent that Trump wasn’t going anywhere. He continued to hold rallies, call the shots in the Republican party and push the “big lie” that he, not Biden, was the true winner in 2020.
Now, despite 91 criminal indictments in four jurisdictions, many of which relate to the attempted coup, he is running to regain the White House in 2024. He is the clear frontrunner for the Republican nomination and, according to a recent New York Times and Siena College poll, leading Biden in five of the six most important battleground states.
Should Trump win a second term, the Washington Post newspaper reported this week, he already has plans to use the federal government to investigate or prosecute perceived enemies including his former chief of staff John Kelly, former attorney general William Barr and Gen Mark Milley, the chair of the joint chiefs of staff.
A presidency guided by such authoritarian impulses would be “ruinous” for democracy and the rule of law, Luttig predicts. “He did what he did on January 6. He’s continued to maintain for three years that the election was stolen from him. He’s done that with now complete and total support of the Republican party.
“All that he has done beginning with January 6 has corrupted American democracy and corrupted American elections and laid waste to Americans’ faith and confidence in their democracy to the extent that today millions and millions and millions of Americans no longer have faith and confidence in their elections.
Luttig, however, has a plan to stop him. In August he joined with the liberal constitutional scholar Laurence Tribe to publish an article in the Atlantic magazine under the headline “The Constitution Prohibits Trump From Ever Being President Again”.
The pair argued that section 3 of the 14th amendment automatically excludes from future office anyone who swears an oath to uphold the constitution and then rebels against it. Irrespective of criminal proceedings or congressional sanctions, they contended, Trump’s efforts to overturn the election are sufficient to bar him for life.
Luttig elaborates by phone: “The former president is disqualified from holding the presidency again because he engaged in an insurrection or rebellion against the constitution of the United States when he attempted to remain in power, notwithstanding that the American people had voted to confer the power of the presidency upon Joe Biden.
Luttig draws a fine but important legal distinction between a rebellion against the constitution, as described by the 14th amendment section 3, and rebellion against the United States. He claims that groups that filed lawsuits in Colorado and elsewhere to bar Trump from the ballot are confused on this issue.
“They do not yet understand what disqualifies the former president, namely an insurrection or rebellion against the constitution. They have argued the cases as if he is disqualified because he engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the United States.
In the meantime Luttig this week helped form a new conservative legal movement, relaunching an organisation formerly known as Checks & Balances as the Society for the Rule of Law. The move was billed as a nationwide expansion aimed at protecting the constitution and defending the rule of law from Trump’s “Make America great again” movement. Its leadership includes Luttig, the lawyer George Conway and former Republican congresswoman Barbara Comstock.
On other side of that split is the Federalist Society, a group that for decades has played a crucial role in grooming conservative judges – its prominent figures have included Leonard Leo, who advised Trump on his supreme court picks – but has said little about the threat posed by the former president to the constitutional order.
At first, Walker did not take the former president’s advice, letting go his sole debate with Warnock – a church pastor – without raising the slur.
But according to Jonathan Karl, ABC News’s chief Washington correspondent and the author of a new book on Trump’s Republican party, “all bets were off once the race went to a run-off”.
Trump’s advice to the former college football and NFL star, and Walker’s garbled recounting of the slur, is reported in Karl’s new book, Tired of Winning, published in the US on Tuesday.
Karl’s source is an unidentified senior Walker adviser who witnessed the conversation, which Walker put “on speakerphone so his team in the room could hear the strategic wisdom that was about to be offered”.
The claim against Warnock concerned alleged abuse in 2002 at a Maryland summer camp run by a church where he was then senior pastor. The allegation surfaced – and was used by the Republican Kelly Loeffler – during Warnock’s first victorious Senate run, which ended with a runoff win in January 2021.
Karl writes that a camper alleged a counselor threw urine at him and locked him outside overnight, as a punishment for wetting his bed.
As reported at the time by the Baltimore Sun, Warnock and another church official were arrested after “a state trooper said the ministers prevented her from interviewing counselors as she investigated” the alleged abuse.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
But the charges of interfering with an investigation were dismissed.
Karl also notes Walker’s own struggles with allegations of domestic violence and reports he paid for an abortion.
Warnock won the runoff, helping Democrats retain the Senate.
An attorney for Donald Trump has told prosecutors in Georgia that one of the former president’s top aides told her in December 2020 that Trump was “not going to leave” the White House “under any circumstances”, despite having lost the election to Joe Biden.
The revelation from Jenna Ellis came during an interview with the Georgia district attorney’s office in Fulton County. Ellis is cooperating as part of a plea agreement in the Georgia election interference case against Trump and various allies.
Sections of the video recordings were published on Monday by ABC News and the Washington Post, along with excerpts from interviews with lawyer Sidney Powell and two other defendants who have reached plea agreements in the case in exchange for testifying.
Ellis said the longtime Trump aide – his deputy chief of staff, Dan Scavino – told her “the boss” would refuse to cede power. She also alluded to two other “relevant” instances for the case but did not disclose them in the video, apparently prevented from doing so by attorney-client privilege.
Ellis described Scavino’s response to her scepticism that Trump had any more legal avenues left to challenge his election loss, saying: “And he said to me, you know, in a kind of excited tone: ‘Well, we don’t care, and we’re not going to leave.’”.
The recordings of the four defendants’ statements were required under the terms of their plea deals, in order that their knowledge of events could be used in cases against other defendants.
The Post also reviewed statements from Georgia bail bondsman Scott Hall and lawyer Kenneth Chesebro. Chesebro claimed he gave Trump a summary of a memo in which he offered advice on the alternate slates of electors, which were created in a plot to cast fake ballots for Trump in states that Biden had legitimately won. The statements could provide evidence Trump knew of the plot.
Trump faces a total 90 criminal charges in four separate indictments. He is accused of election subversion, retention of government secrets and illicit hush-money payments to a porn actor.
Get all the latest updates from court as Trump faces several criminal cases, starting later this year.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
He also faces civil lawsuits over his business affairs, and a rape allegation a judge deemed “substantially true”. Trump has denied all wrongdoing and sought to portray himself as a victim of political persecution.
He continues to hold commanding poll leads over the rest of the candidates for the Republican presidential nomination in 2024.
If Donald Trump wins a second presidency, the US would resemble the authoritarian regimes of Vladimir Putin’s Russia and Viktor Orbán’s Hungary, a prominent Democratic congressman predicted on Sunday.
During an appearance on MSNBC’s Inside with Jen Psaki, Jamie Raskin invoked the names of some of the globe’s most powerful strongmen political leaders to characterize the threat posed by Trump’s status as the leading contender for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination despite the mound of legal problems with which he is grappling.
“The role of the government in his view is to advance his political fortunes and destroy his … enemies,” Raskin said of the former president and reality television show host. “So what would a second term look like?
Raskin said another turn in the Oval Office for Trump would thrust the US “into a completely different form of government than any of us would recognize as continuous with the past”, one that instead would feel more familiar in Xi Jingping’s China or in Jair Bolsonaro’s Brazil before the latter man was voted out of office last year and then barred by his country’s courts from running for re-election due to abuses of power.
The Maryland congressman’s dramatic admonition to Psaki came days after Trump went on Univision and suggested he would use federal investigators and prosecutors to pursue his enemies if he scores a victory in next year’s presidential election.
On Saturday, Trump promised in a speech to “root out the communists, Marxists, fascists and radical left thugs that live like vermin” in the US. Many commentators noted how the term “vermin” echoed antisemitic rhetoric that the Nazis frequently employed to dehumanize Jews as they murdered 6 million of them during the Holocaust.
Meanwhile, the New York Times reported on Saturday that Trump – who routinely speaks fawningly of Putin and other autocratic world leaders – is “planning an extreme expansion” of the immigration crackdown that the Republican oversaw during the presidential term he won in 2016.
The plan reportedly envisions sweeping raids to round up undocumented people in the US before detaining them en masse in sprawling camps while they await deportation. Among other measures, it also calls for a revival of his first-term ban against travelers from predominantly Muslim countries.
Raskin served on the US House committee which investigated the deadly Capitol attack staged by Trump’s supporters on 6 January 2021, weeks after he lost the presidency to his Democratic rival Joe Biden.
After a series of televised hearings last year, the committee recommended that the justice department file criminal charges against Trump. And since March, a combination of federal and state prosecutors have obtained more than 90 criminal charges in four separate, pending indictments against Trump accusing him of election subversion, retention of government secrets and illicit hush-money payments to a porn actor.
He has also faced civil lawsuits over his business affairs and a rape allegation which a judge deemed “substantially true”.
Trump has denied all wrongdoing and sought to portray himself as a victim of political persecution. Nonetheless, he has held commanding polling leads in the contest for the 2024 Republican White House nomination. And there is a consensus among experts that a rematch between him and Biden would be very close.
The Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, on Sunday said her organization was ready to support and embrace Trump as its candidate if he clinches the party’s nomination.
We’re back, and already Donald Trump Jr is back to talking about the Trump Organization’s properties. Now he’s talking about the Trump international golf course in Palm Beach.
“That is the artistry that comes to fruition over and over. He took raw swampland that no one for decades had ever seen value you and turned it into … one of the finest golf clubs in the world,” he said.
Trump lawyer Clifford Robert certainly came up with his line of questioning with plenty of praises in mind.
Much of the hours-long testimony was spent going through a presentation of the history of the Trump Organization and its property portfolio. Trump Jr showered praise on the company and his father, painting a picture of a successful real estate mogul who turned decrepit properties into luxury real estate holdings.
Trump Jr described his father as an “artist” who used his real estate company as his creative canvas. Trump Sr was able to find “sexiness within a real estate project”.
Prosecutors voiced multiple objections throughout the testimony, but judge Arthur Engoron ultimately said because there’s no jury “I’ll allow some leeway here,” and allowed Trump Jr ramble on about the company.
Cross-examination lasted around five minutes, where prosecutors offered a brief reality check for the court, pointing out that the Trump Organization had a loan for 40 Wall Street transferred to a loan servicer and that the owner of the Trump Hotel in Waikiki is paying to remove the Trump name from the hotel.
We are closing this blog for the day. Thanks for reading.
On his way out of court, Donald Trump Jr made brief comments to the cameras outside, briefly railing against attorney general Letitia James.
Meanwhile in the courtroom, Sheri Dillon, who was a tax lawyer for the Trump Organization and helped the company with appraisals, is back on the witness stand. She was last on the stand October 27.
“It’s like a reunion,” judge Arthur Engoron joked when Dillon took the stand.
Cross-examination of Donald Trump Jr ended in about five minutes. Prosecutors largely used the cross-examination as a time to voice a few reality checks about the hours-long Trump property presentation that was shown to the courtroom.
Trump Jr said that the occupancy of 40 Wall Street is at 90%, but prosecutor Colleen Faherty pulled up a document that said that the tower was at 77% occupancy.
The document she pulled up was the transfer of a loan for 40 Wall Street going to a special servicer after being put on a watch list as “cost and vacancies increased”.
“Does this refresh your recollection,” Faherty asked Trump Jr.
“Nope,” he responded, looking at the agreement.
Trump lawyer Christopher Kise objected to the document over “relevance”, causing judge Arthur Engoron to throw up his hands.
“You’re going to question the relevance of this after a whole morning of ‘relevance’?” Engoron said, referring to the defense’s lengthy real estate presentation.
Faherty then asked Trump Jr about the Trump Hotel in Waikiki, which is managed and operated by a separate company that paid to use the Trump name.
“If they want to buy it out for millions of dollars, I’m okay with it,” Trump Jr responded.
Faherty quickly said prosecutors had no more questions and ended cross examination.
Prosecutor Colleen Faherty is already digging into Donald Trump Jr. She pulled up a picture from the presentation of Trump’s golf course in Los Angeles.
“You testified this course is right on the Pacific Ocean, is that correct?” Faherty asked. Trump confirmed.
“Didn’t the 18th hole literally fall into the ocean?” she asked. Trump Jr mumbled a response.
Trump lawyer Clifford Roberts just finished his questioning. The last question he asked Donald Trump Jr was about the future prospects of the Trump Organization. "
“Depends on what happens in November,” Trump Jr said, noting that they will be “sued to oblivion for the forseeable future but they will “do what we need to do”.
Cross-examination is starting.
There have been many moments during Donald Trump Jr’s testimony so far that has felt like he has been giving the courtroom – and judge Arthur Engoron, a marketing presentation.
Talking about the Albemarle Estate at Trump Winery, Trump’s hotel in Charlottesville, Virginia, Trump Jr tried to mention a bit of US history.
A picture showed the asset with what appeared to be a hill overhead. Trump pointed out that over that hill is “where Jefferson escaped to during the Revolutionary War”.
“Very cool history there,” Trump Jr said, turning to Engoron, who kept a neutral expression.
A promotional video of Trump Links at Ferry Point in the Bronx was just shown, a bizarre moment when music reminiscent of a Home Depot ad started playing over speakers in the courtroom.
“That’s how Trump likes to do thing, ahead of schedule,” Eric Trump said in the video, which also featured Donald Trump Jr.
We’re back from lunch and buckle up, we finally made it to 2014 in the slideshow put on by Trump’s defense team, a timeline of Trump Organization’s property portfolios.
Some oversaturated pictures of the golf course are being shown to the courtroom: a lighthouse in sunset, the bright green of the turf, a blue cloudy sky – quite a contrast to the dimmed lighting in the courtroom.
Forbes’ Dan Alexander did a quick fact check on the slideshow that Trump’s defense team has been using during Donald Trump Jr’s testimony. It appears the slideshow inaccurately said the building is 72 stories, though it’s actually 63 stories.
It also said that the building is “directly” across from the New York Stock Exchange, which is inaccurate – it’s around the corner from the stock exchange.
Trump Jr has been flying through the Trump Organization’s various properties, trying to establish his father as a “genius” real estate mogul.
There was a brief back-and-forth with judge Arthur Engoron and prosecutors, who were objecting to the use of a valuation from Newmark real estate group that valued the Trump Doral golf course in Miami at $1.3bn in 2022.
Prosecutors argued that the presentation was hearsay and was outside the period of the case. Engoron said: “It’s completely irrelevant but there’s no jury here”.
It’s clear that prosecutors are losing patience with Trump Jr’s testimony, but Engoron is maintaining that the Trump team wants this all on the record – even if it doesn’t necessarily help with their case – so he’ll let them get it on the record.
And we’re on for lunch break! Court will be back in session at 2.15pm.
Can confirm this is the vibe in the courtroom for the last hour and a half.
I kinda feel like Don Jr. is not so much testifying in his own defense, but rather is trying to sell me a condo.
We’re still in the middle of Donald Trump Jr talking about Trump Organization properties developed in the late-2000s.
Trump Jr has been speaking highly of the properties and frequently lavishing praise on them, saying certain buildings are among the “tallest” in their cities and that the properties are seen as the “best” by experts.
Prosecutors objected Trump Jr referring to praise from other people and the other accolades he is constantly mentioning.
“I’m not speculating, these are things that actually happened,” Trump Jr said, turning toward judge Arthur Engoron.
We are well into over two hours with Donald Trump Jr on the stand, and the bulk of his testimony so far has been him talking about the Trump Organization’s real estate portfolio, in the style of a marketing presentation.
Each slide contains a picture of a property, sometimes a ballroom or a golf course. Sometimes a picture of a Trump executives will appear.
“I won’t comment on that picture, I will refrain,” he said when a picture of Eric Trump came up on the slide. “A lot of Photoshop,” he joked.
A picture of Trump lawyer Alina Habba at a UFC match over the weekend is making the rounds as Habba is clearly wearing a “FJB” necklace and is holding up a clutch bedazzled with “Maga”.
It seems like Habba left those accessories at home today.
New York Jets owner Woody Johnson and Trump lawyer Alina Habba at the UFC match.
It seems like Donald Trump Jr is trying to use a different vocabulary than his father, who often invokes the word “beautiful” to describe his various properties.
We’re back, and already Donald Trump Jr is back to talking about the Trump Organization’s properties. Now he’s talking about the Trump international golf course in Palm Beach.
“That is the artistry that comes to fruition over and over. He took raw swampland that no one for decades had ever seen value you and turned it into … one of the finest golf clubs in the world,” he said.
Trump lawyer Clifford Robert certainly came up with his line of questioning with plenty of praises in mind.
“This additional to detail, how would you describe this in terms of the other holes in the course?” Roberts asked, when asking Trump Jr about details in the Palm Beach golf course.
“He just sees that other people don’t,” Trump Jr said.
Donald Trump Jr said that his father was “on the leading edge of creativity” when Trump came up with the concept of the condominium hotel.
“A buyer can own a one-bedroom hotel,” Trump Jr explained on the stand, occasionally turning toward to a stone-faced Judge Arthur Engoron, a dramatic picture of the Trump hotel in New York City displayed for the courtroom. “When they’re not there, it’s generating income from them.
Engoron overruled a standing objection from prosecutors over Trump Jr talking so extensively about the history and portfolio of the company. Trump Jr has been talking about the properties for nearly an hour.
We’re on a 15-minute break.
If you need a refresher of Donald Trump Jr’s testimony earlier this month, it was a lot of light-hearted jokes and “I don’t recall”.
At one point, prosecutors pulled up an email from a Forbes reporter to the Trump Organization that included questions about the actual size of Trump’s triplex penthouse apartment in Trump Tower. Trump told the magazine that the unit was 33,000 sq ft, but documents had shown it was closer to 11,000 sq ft.
“Insane amount of stuff there in regards to the Forbes inquiry,” Donald Jr wrote to other Trump Organization executives in response to the inquiry.
When asked whether the Trump Organization conducted their own investigation into the matter after Forbes inquiry, Trump Jr said the organization received “hundreds” of questions from the magazine.
Given that he’s kicking off the defense’s case, Trump Jr will probably appear to remember a lot more this time around, though on cross-examination, he will likely maintain that he was removed from the case’s financial statements.
Fox News is being sued by a former Capitol Hill reporter who accuses the network of discriminating and retaliating against him because he refused to appease Donald Trump and the former president’s supporters by propagating lies about the “stolen” 2020 election.
Jason Donner, who worked for Fox News for 12 years as a Capitol Hill reporter and producer, accuses the network of firing him because he spoke out against the coverage of Trump’s stolen election lie and the storming of the Capitol building on 6 January 2021. He was the victim of a wider purge of the newsroom, the lawsuit claims, designed to hold up the network’s ratings by playing along with election denial.
The suit, which is being heard by a federal court in Washington DC, gives a vivid account of Donner’s experiences during the January 6 insurrection. Once rioters had entered the Capitol building, he sheltered along with other reporters in the news booths connected to the Senate.
The suit claims that after Fox News became the first media outlet to call Arizona for Joe Biden shortly before midnight on election night in 2020, the network faced a furious backlash from Trump and his supporters. Ratings suffered.
“To win back viewership and pledge its loyalty to President Trump, Fox’s corporate leadership purged the news division and those reporters who spoke out against claims of election fraud,” it states.
Donner also objected to the conspiracy theories being touted by Fox’s star host at the time, Tucker Carlson, who has since been fired. Donner particularly objected to Carlson’s Fox Nation program, Patriot Purge, but was told by a manager, the suit says, that there was “nothing they could do because Tucker has gotten bigger than the network”.
The former Fox News reporter claims that retaliation against him began in the spring of 2022. “It became evident to Donner he was now being targeted for speaking out against the false reporting on the election and the January 6 insurrection,” the lawsuit contends.
Donner was fired on 28 September 2022 on what he claims were pretextual grounds related to the sick day he had taken two days previously having fallen ill after a Covid-19 vaccination.
The new suit is one of a spate of litigation that Fox is fielding relating to its handling of the stolen election lie. In April, the company settled with the voting equipment company Dominion for $787.5m in a defamation suit over false allegations about the firm’s involvement in “rigging” the 2020 election.
A similar $2.7bn suit from another voting machine company, Smartmatic, is ongoing.
Maryanne Trump Barry, a retired US federal judge and older sister of the former president Donald Trump, has died. She was 86.
Multiple news outlets said Barry died at her home on the Upper East Side in New York City. A person familiar with the matter told the New York Times that Barry was found early on Monday morning. Her cause of death was unknown.
The eldest daughter of prominent New York property developer Fred Trump and Mary Anne MacLeod Trump, Barry became an assistant US attorney in 1974 before being appointed to the US district court for New Jersey by Ronald Reagan in 1983. Her appointment to the federal bench, the Times said, was aided by Donald Trump’s then “fixer, the lawyer Roy M Cohn”. In 1999, Barry was appointed to the US court of appeals for the third circuit by Bill Clinton.
In 2018, while Donald Trump was in the White House, a New York Times investigation of his tax affairs, aided by Mary L Trump, the president’s niece who had become alienated from the family, prompted a formal complaint over whether Barry engaged in tax schemes in the 1990s.
The Times report claimed that Barry, who allegedly benefited financially, was able to use her position of power to benefit her family.
Barry retired from the federal bench in 2019.
She was long said to be close to her younger brother, but his rise to power and chaotic White House term seemed to change the relationship.
In 2020, Mary Trump released recordings in which her aunt could be heard criticising the then president.
Barry was married to the late John Barry, a trial and appellate lawyer.
Fred Trump Jr, the oldest of Donald Trump’s siblings and father to Mary L Trump, died in 1981, aged 42.
Robert Trump, a younger brother of the former president, died in 2020 aged 71. His funeral was held at the White House.
Donald Trump’s first wife, Ivana Trump, died aged 73 at her home in New York City last year. She is buried at Bedminster, the former president’s golf club in New Jersey.
Donald Trump, 77, is the clear frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination next year, despite facing 91 criminal charges and assorted civil threats.
Representatives for Trump did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
n his new book, Jonathan Karl captures Donald Trump gloating. “She said she could never get crowds like that,” the former US president turned de facto Republican presidential nominee is quoted as saying, after a conversation with Angela Merkel, then chancellor of Germany.
One Republican congressman, Karl notes, was left wondering whether Trump understood that Merkel was alluding to Adolf Hitler.
Asking: “Which would be more unsettling: that he didn’t or that he did?”, Karl leaves the reader to judge.
The unnamed aide omitted two other possibilities: placing Karl’s book in your hands or on your bedside table. Tired of Winning is worth reading. It is well-paced, meticulously sourced and amply footnoted. Karl’s third installment on the Trump presidency and aftermath shines a needed light on how the Republican party has been recast and reshaped. Subtitled Donald Trump and the End of the Grand Old Party, it is an all-too-rare case of truth-in-advertising.
With Trump and the GOP, it’s till death do us part.
Bannon shares his disdain for Mike Lindell, one of the more pathetic characters in Trump’s orbit. The MyPillow guy and a passel of so-called “prophets” mistakenly claimed Trump would be “reinstated” as president during Joe Biden’s first term. Lindell boasted of holding receipts but never delivered. Bannon played along, until he didn’t.
Like Lindell – like Trump – Bannon faces legal woes. He awaits sentencing for contempt of Congress and is set to stand trial in 2024 in New York on felony fraud and conspiracy charges. Elsewhere, Karl reminds the reader of Trump’s fondness for defamation and disdain for the truth. In last year’s Georgia US Senate race, for example, he repeatedly counseled Herschel Walker, a protege and one-time college football and NFL star, to falsely label the Rev Raphael Warnock, the incumbent Democratic senator, as a “child molester”.
“But I got no evidence of that,” Walker pushed back.
Trump was undeterred.
Before election day, Walker, who had a documented history of domestic violence, punted on Trump’s advice. The runoff was different. Walker let loose with the garbage furnished by Trump.
It was a lie. Warnock eked out a narrow win.
This year, a Manhattan jury found Trump defamed and physically abused the writer E Jean Carroll, who said he attacked her in a department store dressing room in the mid-1990s. Next year, just as the Republican primary gets under way, he will face a second civil suit in the matter.
Karl is anguished by the havoc Trump has wrought.
And yet, in five of six electoral battlegrounds, Trump leads Biden in polls. The public views the US president as too old and Kamala Harris, his vice-president, as a lightweight.
Trump vows to weaponize the justice department and the FBI. He embraces the rhetoric of the Confederacy as he vows retribution. He parrots Hitler as he unleashes on the “enemy within” and brands opponents “vermin”.
Americans should be alarmed, but not surprised. More than 30 years ago, Trump’s first wife, Ivana, let it be known that he kept a volume of Hitler’s speeches by the bed. In the White House, Trump reportedly told John Kelly, then his chief of staff, that Hitler “did a lot of good things”.
ne of the strongest candidates for US president in 2024 may be one who’s not yet in the race. There’s growing evidence that Gavin Newsom, the charismatic and energetic Democratic governor of California, is running something of a shadow campaign to Joe Biden and ready to step up if, or when, the incumbent is out of the running.
Several developments in recent days suggest Newsom, who romped to re-election a year ago without really campaigning, is ready to bring forward what was already expected to be a strong run for the presidency in 2028.
There are mounting concerns inside the Democratic party, matching polling among voters, that Biden is too old for a second term, the start of which in January 2025 would see him two months past his 82nd birthday if re-elected. Some want him to stand down.
Newsom, 56, is among a generation of younger, prominent and popular Democrats expected to emerge from the shadow of the old guard, and has stolen a march on his peers with a series of bold moves many analysts see as strategic.
Even movie star Arnold Schwarzenegger, himself a Republican former two-term governor of California, thinks a Newsom run at the White House is inevitable.
“I think it’s a no-brainer. Every governor from a big state wants to take that shot,” Schwarzenegger said earlier this year.
But not all Democrats appear thrilled at the prospect. Pennsylvania US senator John Fetterman, at a dinner in Iowa, connected Newsom with Dean Philips, a congressman who said he is challenging Biden.
This week, Newsom made a financial donation to a Democratic mayoral candidate in Charleston, South Carolina, 2,800 miles from his governor’s mansion in Sacramento. Reaching into political elections in other states is, experts say, a sure sign of a potential presidential candidate wishing to raise their profile on the national stage.
“South Carolina is an early state in the primary process for Democrats, and doing well in the early states is seen as momentum for later ones,” said Eric Schickler, professor of political science at University of California, Berkeley, and co-director of its institute of governmental studies.
Newsom has publicly denied that he has sights on Biden’s job.
“I’m rooting for our president and I have great confidence in his leadership,” he told Fox News earlier this year.
But while Schickler believes Newsom’s own thinking about the timing of any White House run probably hasn’t changed, he says circumstances have.
“The Democratic party’s nervousness about Biden has certainly increased, and with him polling behind Donald Trump in many states, his low approval ratings, young voters being especially disenchanted with Biden, all of that has heightened interest among a lot of party supporters in an alternative,” he said.
That alternative might not be Kamala Harris, who as vice-president would usually be assumed Biden’s heir apparent. Her public approval is currently as low as the president’s.
So a rising, often progressive-leaning politician such as Newsom, with a wealth of executive and legislative experience, and a willingness to counter head-on Republican policies and personalities, makes for an attractive proposition.
“It’s not a situation where there’s like 20, or 50, or 100 Democratic leaders who could be viewed as legitimate. If there were such a group, Newsom has positioned himself pretty well and would be on a very short list along with [Michigan governor] Gretchen Whitmer and a couple others,” Schickler said.
“The problem is the party. There’s just a lot of different voices, a lot of different constituencies, and not really anybody or any group that could authoritatively say, ‘Oh, it’s Newsom’.
Other not so subtle clues that Newsom has sights on higher office include his $10m (£8.2m) investment earlier this year in a new political action committee designed to spread the Democratic party’s message in Republican-held states he said have “authoritarian leaders directly attacking our freedoms”.
Among the targets is Ron DeSantis, the hard-right Florida governor and faltering candidate for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination. The pair will debate each other on 30 November in a highly anticipated nationally televised event once billed as a clash of two leading White House contenders.
“The idea of debating DeSantis was probably a lot more appealing when it really did look like he might actually defeat Trump. In that scenario, showing you can debate him and score a lot of points helps Newsom’s visibility with the party and makes his case that he would be an effective candidate,” Shickler said.
Donald Trump can appear on the ballot for the Republican primary in Michigan, a state judge ruled on Tuesday, a setback to challengers who argue he is constitutionally disqualified from being president because of his actions on 6 January 2021.
The lawsuit is one of several that left-leaning groups have filed across the country arguing that section 3 of the 14th amendment bars Trump from holding office. The provision says anyone who takes an oath to the United States and then engages in “insurrection” or “rebellion” against the nation cannot hold office unless Congress votes by two-thirds majority to allow them. The measure was adopted after the civil war and has not been tested.
In Michigan, that language does not prevent a candidate from appearing on the ballot for a party primary for the purposes of selecting a nominee, Judge James Robert Redford, of the Michigan court of claims, ruled on Tuesday. While he left the door open to a challenge should Trump become the nominee, he suggested courts could not prevent Trump from appearing on the ballot because the core question in the matter was one for Congress, not judges.
Ron Fein, the legal director for Free Speech for People, who represented the challengers in the case, said the court “adopted a discredited theory that claims that only Congress can decide whether a presidential candidate fails to meet constitutional qualifications for office”.
Fein said his group would appeal the case to the Michigan supreme court and seek to bypass the Michigan court of appeals. Democrats have a 4-3 majority on the bench there. The Michigan case is being closely watched because it is one of several battleground states critical for a presidential candidate to win next year.
“The Michigan supreme court should reverse this badly reasoned lower-court decision. While our appeal is pending, the trial court’s decision isn’t binding on any other court, and we continue our current and planned legal actions in other states to enforce section 3 of the 14th amendment against Donald Trump,” Fein said in a statement.
Steven Cheung, a spokesman for the Trump campaign, praised the ruling.
“Each and every one of these ridiculous cases have LOST because they are all un-constitutional leftwing fantasies orchestrated by monied allies of the Biden campaign seeking to turn the election over to the courts and deny the American people the right to choose their next president,” he said in a statement.
The Michigan secretary of state, Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat who was once an election law professor, tweeted she was “gratified that today’s court ruling affirms my position that under Michigan law anyone generally advocated by the news media to be a candidate for the Republican and Democratic nomination for president must be listed on the February 2024 primary ballot”.
Last week, the Minnesota supreme court also dismissed a 14th-amendment challenge, saying the constitutional provision could not block Trump from appearing on a primary ballot. A trial court in Colorado also oversaw a five-day evidentiary hearing on a challenge there and is expected to issue a ruling soon.
Legal experts widely expect the ruling to be decided by the US supreme court, to which Trump appointed three of the six conservative justices that comprise a supermajority.
Donald Trump paid tribute on Tuesday to his sister, Maryanne Trump Barry, after her death at the age of 86, saluting her beauty and intellect but also complaining about what he called her “merciless” treatment by US news media after he became president in 2016.
Barry retired from the federal bench in 2019 after investigations of Trump family tax affairs seemed to implicate her in avoidance schemes.
She died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side, in New York City.
“My great sister, Maryanne, passed away yesterday at the age of 86,” Trump wrote on his social media platform, Truth Social, on Tuesday.
It long been known that Barry received her first judicial appointment, from Ronald Reagan in 1983, thanks in large part to Roy Cohn, an infamous mafia-linked lawyer who was then Donald Trump’s fixer. Barry was appointed to the appeals court in 1999, by Bill Clinton, and assumed senior status in 2011.
Trump continued: “Her life was largely problem-free, PERFECT, until I made it difficult for her when I decided to run for president.
In 2018, the New York Times said a blockbuster report on Trump’s taxes, which he had kept from public view, was in large part fueled by the discovery of a “disclosure form that … Maryanne … filed related to her Senate confirmation hearing”.
A year after Barry retired, her niece, the writer and Trump critic Mary L Trump, released recordings in which her aunt was harshly critical of the then president.
Donald Trump now faces 91 criminal charges, including 17 regarding election subversion, and assorted civil trials. Nonetheless, he leads polling regarding the Republican presidential nomination by vast margins nationally and in battleground states.
He did not comment on Monday on his sister’s death. On Tuesday, before issuing his statement about his sister, he used his Truth Social platform to attack the New York attorney general, whose lawsuit over his business practices landed him and his family in court; to post favourable polling results; and to complain about the latest Marvel superhero film.
Turning to his tribute to his deceased sibling, Trump said he would “never forget the many times people would come up to me and say, ‘Your sister was the smartest person on the court.’ I was always honoured by that, but understood exactly what they meant – they were right!
id you know Cuba has a Capitol in Havana that closely resembles its American counterpart? Edel Rodriguez does, and that’s one more reason why he, a Cuban American political cartoonist, was so disturbed by what happened in his adopted homeland on January 6.
Rodriguez grew up in the shadow of a different sort of insurgency, the revolution that swept Fidel Castro to power in January 1959. He knew what it was like for a people to lose their freedoms under a dictatorship, and he knew the resulting desire to seek liberty, which he and his family did in the Mariel boatlift in 1980. So after 2016, when Donald Trump won the White House, uncomfortable memories from the not-so-distant past began to surface, never more so than on 6 January 2021.
Now, Rodriguez has put it all down in a graphic-novel memoir, Worm: A Cuban-American Odyssey.
“I don’t think most Americans realize what a coup is, or a coup attempt, how dangerous it is,” he says.
In Worm, compelling artwork revisits January 6 and its immediate aftermath, when barbed wire surrounded the US Capitol and the national guard patrolled. Red-and-black images juxtapose Castro’s revolutionary soldiers, fists and rifles raised, with the QAnon Shaman and an American flag at half-staff.
Ask Rodriguez which panels he is most proud of and he holds up a pair of two-page spreads. One, at the beginning of the narrative, depicts the Cuban revolution, Castro’s bearded army storming Havana atop tanks, that familiar-looking Capitol in the background. A panel found near the end of the memoir, meanwhile, shows the US Capitol rioters charging the seat of Congress, wearing Maga caps and brandishing multiple flags: American, Confederate, “Back-the-Blue” pro-police. The images are inverses of each other, the crowds marching in opposite directions.
“It really does go to what I’m trying to say – two sides of the same coin,” Rodriguez says.
Edel Rodriguez’s depiction of the Cuban revolution, in 1959. Photograph: Edel Rodriguez.
Rodriguez’s depictions of Trump are now famous, making the covers of Time and Der Spiegel. The most striking is up for debate. Is it Trump’s face as a melting blob, which MSNBC likened to the Wicked Witch of the West? Trump holding a bloody knife in one hand and the severed head of the Statue of Liberty in the other, inspired by a picture of an Islamic State terrorist? Trump draped in an American flag, giving the Nazi salute?
“I think he brought a certain kind of extremism to politics in America,” Rodriguez says. “I felt that it needed to be addressed … I’m just not a fan of extremism of any sort.
“The best way to deal with problems,” he says, is to hold democratic elections, and if your candidate doesn’t win, to try again in the next go-round. What he’s seen far too often instead is the authoritarian alternative of “men with guns – communists in Cuba, the Maga crowd in the US, or Isis”.
n Worm, Rodriguez examines his first-hand experiences with dictatorship. In cold war Cuba, he lived an hour away from the capital, in the small town of El Gabriel. Although he remembers being far more tuned in to nature there than in the US, he also describes being indoctrinated in school, from the red beret he wore to the Castro personality cult that was instilled by teachers. His parents lived in fear that his father’s entrepreneurial streak might get them in trouble, including neighborhood snoops who put their curiosity to the use of the Communist party.
A tip-off alerted Rodriguez’s father to stepped-up scrutiny, accelerating the decision to leave. The Mariel boatlift made things easier in some ways, harder in others, as Rodriguez now explains in Worm, which unfolds memories of tense exit negotiations with authorities; a state of limbo in a tent city; and the miraculous day when a rescue vessel came. For the Rodriguez family, it was a shrimp boat called Nature Boy. Castro released prisoners to join the exodus to America, some of whom packed the boat. It and a convoy of other vessels made it to US shores.
As Cubans willingly left their homeland, Castro insulted them with a choice barb, the “worm” of the book’s title.
“It’s what they would call us, being underground, taking from the system,” Rodriguez says.
In Spanish, it’s gusano, which the author considered for a title.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
ecades later – after studying at the Pratt Institute, getting a big break at Time, marrying and raising a family and even going back to Cuba to see family and friends – Rodriguez felt familiar enough with authoritarianism in his birthplace to speak out against it in his new home. That desire increased over the course of Trump’s 2016 campaign and ensuing four years in power. The verbal attack on a Muslim Gold Star family … the Access Hollywood tape … the Muslim ban … it’s all there, and so are Rodriguez’s graphic-art ripostes. He gives Trump a distinctive look: yellow hair, orange skin, no eyes or nose, just a wide-open mouth.
Rodriguez has found approval – and backlash. He realized just how big the backlash had grown when he fielded a sympathetic audience question about his safety after giving a lecture in another country with a troubled history.
Rodriguez will keep making waves with his art, even if it is now tinged with a sense of betrayal and loss, from an American dream that became a nightmare.
“I think January 6 really did puncture a lot of what America means to people – not just myself, but many people in the world,” he says. “The US is the place you go to hope and dream. To see the US Congress get attacked, like some country in some other part of the world that has been attacked, like the parliament in Moscow getting attacked in the 1990s – to feel that shock, to see that in the US … I’m very sad, very disappointed.
Donald Trump Jr is expected to take the witness stand in New York for a second time as defense lawyers for the family firm make their case in the $250m fraud trial.
Trump Jr is the first witness to testify from the defense’s witness list, which also includes Donald Trump and Eric Trump as witnesses, though it is unclear whether they will end up being called.
The New York attorney general’s office is suing Trump, his adult sons and other executives at the Trump Organization for inflating the value of assets on financial statements. They rested their case after Ivanka Trump testified last Wednesday. Trump faces a fine of at least $250m if found guilty at the end of the trial. The New York judge Arthur Engoron has already ruled Trump should have his business licenses revoked for fraud, though the ruling is going through an appellate court.
Trump’s eldest son had taken the stand on 1 November, where he said he did not work on the financial statements on the case – though he signed multiple documents affirming their fairness and accuracy – and said he expected banks to do their own “due diligence” rather than relying on the financial statements.
“I know a lot of bankers that do their own due diligence,” Trump Jr said on the stand.
Trump’s team did not question him during his first appearance. His lawyers will be trying to make their case that lenders were not harmed by and had actively sought out relationships with the Trump family. In testimony so far, the Trumps have downplayed the importance of the financial statements, saying they were exclusively handled by the organization’s accountants and legal departments and that the family typically had enough cash on hand to conduct deals.
Though they were presented with multiple documents showing they were consulted over the financial statements and had signed off on deals where the statements were used to affirm the family’s net worth, the Trumps said they did not recall working on or using the statements.
When Trump himself took the stand, he furiously ranted against the judge and New York attorney general Letitia James, whom he called a “political hack”. His children, especially Ivanka Trump, were calmer on the stand but similarly tried to undermine the importance of the financial statements.
Trump’s defense team said they will wrap up their witness testimonies by 15 December. The trial is scheduled to go until 22 December, though it could end before then.
The Biden White House condemned Donald Trump for promising, if re-elected president, to “root out” opponents within US society he called “communists, Marxists, fascists and radical left thugs that live like vermin”.
“Employing words like ‘vermin’ to describe anyone who makes use of their basic right to criticise the government ‘echoes dictators’ like Hitler and Mussolini,” the White House spokesperson Andrew Bates said, quoting Washington Post coverage of Trump’s remarks.
Trump is the clear frontrunner to face Joe Biden in an election rematch next year, enjoying vast leads for the Republican nomination in battleground and national polls despite facing 91 criminal charges, including election subversion, and assorted civil trials including a defamation case arising from a rape allegation a judge said was “substantially true”.
Trump leads or is close to Biden in numerous swing state polls.
The former president spoke in Claremont, New Hampshire, on Saturday, in the middle of the Veterans Day weekend.
“The threat from outside forces is far less sinister, dangerous and grave than the threat from within,” said Trump, who was impeached, for a second time, for inciting the deadly January 6 attack on Congress in an attempt to stay in power.
Get all the latest updates from court as Trump faces several criminal cases, starting later this year.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Trump has also said he would if re-elected consider suspending the US constitution in order to achieve his aims.
The 2024 election promises to be historic as a long slate of Republican candidates seek to unseat the sitting president, Joe Biden. After the pandemic changed the way Americans campaigned and voted four years ago, and three years after thousands of rioters waged violent protest at the nation’s Capitol to upend the last election’s results, the US will face new obstacles in carrying out the democratic process.
Here is the list of candidates in the primary elections, held beginning in early 2024.
Binkley, a Texas businessman, is a long-shot candidate who is also a pastor at Create church. The self-proclaimed far-right fiscal conservative criticized both Democrats and Republicans for not being able to balance the federal budget, and said he would focus on health costs, immigration reform and a national volunteer movement.
Burgum, the governor of North Dakota, announced his campaign in an opinion piece for the Wall Street Journal on 6 June. Viewed as a surprise, long-shot candidate, he touted his experience as a career businessman and leaned on his small-town roots in an announcement video titled Change. As governor, Burgum signed into law a near-total abortion ban, which makes the procedure illegal after six weeks, and only permissible in cases of rape, incest or medical emergency up to that point. He supported Donald Trump for president in 2016 and in 2020.
The former New Jersey governor has emerged as one of the harshest Republican critics of Donald Trump, whom he endorsed for president in 2016 after dropping out of the race. Christie says he broke ties with the former president after the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, claiming that he hadn’t spoken to Trump since then. Christie, a lawyer and a lobbyist who served as a US attorney appointed by George W Bush, announced he is running for president a second time on 6 June in New Hampshire during a town hall.
Governor Ron DeSantis of Florida is predicted to be the strongest contender for the GOP nomination against Donald Trump, consistently polling second among Republican primary voters. He made his formal announcement on Twitter, a Spaces event attended by roughly 300,000 users that was riddled with technological glitches, on 24 May. DeSantis, who has served as Florida’s governor since 2019 and handily defeated the Democratic challenger, Charlie Crist, in 2022, who previously represented Florida’s sixth congressional district as a member of the US House from 2012 to 2018. As governor, DeSantis has signed a slate of laws banning minors from receiving gender-affirming care and restricting education on sexual orientation and gender identity in schools, and he has become an outspoken critic of the Chinese Communist party.
Haley, who got her start in politics as a member of South Carolina’s general assembly, was governor of South Carolina from 2011 to 2017. She ended her second term early to serve as US ambassador to the United Nations under Donald Trump before announcing her resignation in 2018. She became the first Republican to announce a run against Donald Trump, even though she previously said she would not run against him. Haley has vowed to “fix” the US immigration system by “stopping illegal immigration” and described herself as pro-life, but said a federal abortion ban was unrealistic. Haley, who is the daughter of Indian immigrants, would be the first US president of Asian descent, as well as the first woman.
Hutchinson is the former governor of Arkansas, a post he held from 2015 to 2023. The relatively unknown politician announced his candidacy in an interview on ABC days after Trump was indicted in a Manhattan court, saying the ex-president should drop out of the race. Hutchinson is a businessman and lawyer who was appointed by Ronald Reagan to serve as a US attorney. He also served a stint in the US House of Representatives, winning a congressional seat in 1996 when he replaced his brother, Tim, who ran for Senate.
The biotech entrepreneur and political newcomer announced his campaign in a video describing attacks on the “culture of free speech in America” and again on Fox News in an interview with now-fired Tucker Carlson. He is the author of Woke, Inc., a book that lobbies against “ESG” – a framework of corporate governance that encourages companies to consider the environment and social justice issues. Ramaswamy, the youngest candidate vying for the Republican nomination, has lobbied in favor of raising the national voting age to 25. Ramaswamy would be the first president of Asian and Indian descent. He has also vowed to pardon federally indicted Donald Trump.
Former president Donald Trump is the top contender for the Republican party nomination, even as he faces several legal hurdles, including federal charges over obstructing justice and violating the Espionage Act. Trump, a longtime businessman, unsuccessfully ran for re-election as president in 2020, and refused to accept the outcome of the results. Trump most recently said he is pro-life, and would continue his hardline immigration stance in a second term if elected. He has also renewed attacks on trans people, especially athletes, and his anti-China agenda.
Biden is the likely Democratic nominee for the 2024 presidential election. He announced his campaign for re-election on 25 April, exactly four years after he announced his previous, successful presidential campaign. While approval for Biden remains low, hovering just above 40%, political experts say he is the most likely candidate to defeat Donald Trump, the frontrunner for the Republican nomination. Biden has served in politics for over five decades and is running on a platform that includes abortion rights, gun reform and healthcare. At 81, he is the oldest president in US history.
Dean Phillips, a three-term Democratic congressman from Minnesota, is challenging Biden, saying the next generation should have the opportunity to lead the country. Phillips is the heir to a distilling company and once co-owned a gelato company. He entered public office spurred by fighting back against Trump.
Cenk Uygur announced the longest of long-shot campaigns in October. Now 53, the outspoken host of the progressive Young Turks TV show has no experience in elected office – though he did run for Congress in California in 2020 – but perhaps more importantly he was born in Istanbul, Turkey. Most legal scholars would say that makes him ineligible to be president, under article II, section I, clause 5 of the US constitution, which says only “natural born citizens” can hold the office. Uygur says otherwise, and promises to prove it in court. He also says Democrats need to ditch Biden or face losing the White House to Trump.
Failed 2020 presidential candidate Marianne Williamson, who also unsuccessfully ran for a seat in the US House of Representatives in 2014, became the first Democratic candidate to announce she is running for president as a challenge to Joe Biden. Williamson, an author of self-help books, launched her long-shot bid with campaign promises to address climate change and student loan debt. She previously worked as “spiritual leader” of a Michigan Unity church.
Robert F Kennedy Jr, known for his work as an environmental lawyer and his anti-vaccine views, said he was running for president to end the “chronic disease epidemic”. Kennedy, who compared vaccine mandates during the Covid-19 pandemic to “Hitler’s Germany”, has promoted other baseless conspiracy theories such as telecom networks being used to control people. He is the nephew of John F Kennedy, the former Democratic president, who was assassinated in office, and is the son of 1968 Democratic presidential candidate Robert F Kennedy, who was assassinated on the campaign trail.
The progressive activist Cornel West announced in a video posted to Twitter that he is running for president as a member of the People’s party, a third party headed by a former campaign staffer for Bernie Sanders. West is currently a professor of philosophy at Union Theological Seminary and previously worked at Harvard but resigned, saying the school had an “intellectual and spiritual bankruptcy of deep depths”.
The rightwing political commentator and radio talkshow host announced his run for president on Fox News as a guest on the now-canceled Tucker Carlson Tonight on 20 April 2023. In 2021, Elder joined a list of Republicans seeking to replace Gavin Newsom, the Democratic governor of California, in a failed recall. The Los Angeles resident was an outspoken critic of the state’s mask mandates, calling them “a joke”.
Former US Representative Will Hurd, of Texas, entered the crowded primary field as a moderate and critic of Donald Trump. Hurd announced his campaign in an interview on CBS. He followed that with a video posted online in which he called Trump a “lawless, selfish, failed politician” and laid out an agenda to curb “illegal immigration”, inflation, crime and homelessness. Hurd, who worked for nearly a decade in the CIA, served three terms in the House, from 2015 to 2021. He left office as the only Black Republican in the chamber.
Johnson is a businessman who ran unsuccessfully for governor of Michigan in 2022 after providing fraudulent nominating signatures for that campaign. Originally from Illinois, Johnson founded dozens of companies, and lives in Michigan with his family. He has billed himself as Donald Trump “without the baggage” and has taken similar policy positions on curbing US debt and cracking down on the FBI.
Mike Pence officially launched his campaign for president on 7 June, in a rare instance of a former vice-president challenging the president with whom he shared a ticket a few years ago. Pence joined a crowded Republican field in which he has consistently polled third, even before he officially announced his candidacy, though he trails far behind DeSantis and Trump. Pence is angling for a wide base among evangelical Christians and has vowed to ban abortion if he is elected. He denounced the January 6 attack on the US Capitol, and has used it as a talking point against Trump, who turned against him after he publicly refused supporters’ calls to overturn the results of the election.
Suarez, the mayor of Miami, is the first major Hispanic candidate seeking the Republican party nomination this election cycle. The son of Miami’s first Cuban-born mayor, Suarez has said he would broaden support for Republicans among Latino voters. He is the third candidate from Florida to join the crowded primary field, alongside frontrunners Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis. Suarez, who was first elected in 2017, filed paperwork to run the day after Trump appeared in a Miami court over federal charges and made his formal announcement on Good Morning America the day after that.
In May, Scott became the second politician from South Carolina to run for the Republican nomination. He has served as a senator from South Carolina since 2013 when he was appointed by Republican challenger Nikki Haley to fill a vacancy. Scott, who is one of three Black members of the Senate and is the only Black Republican senator, said in his announcement speech that “America is not a racist country.” Scott joined fellow Republicans in opposing the Respect for Marriage Act in 2022. Scott served as a member of the House from 2011 to 2013 and before that spent stints in South Carolina’s general assembly and Charleston’s county council. During his 2010 campaign for the House of Representatives, Scott told Newsweek that homosexuality was a morally wrong choice.
Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina has suspended his presidential campaign, conceding that he does not see any path to the Republican nomination as Donald Trump maintains a significant lead in primary polling.
Scott told Fox News in an interview on Sunday evening that he had suspended his campaign. His exit may provide a modest boost for other candidates trying to dislodge frontrunner Donald Trump from the top spot.
“I think the voters, who are the most remarkable people on the planet, have been really clear that they’re telling me: ‘Not now Tim,’” he said.
The news comes less than six months after Scott launched his White House bid with the promise of offering a more optimistic vision about America’s future, projecting the persona of a “happy warrior” ready to lead the Republican party into a new era. Scott, who is the only Black Republican serving in the Senate, used his own personal story as the child of a single mother to make an argument for America’s greatness, accusing Joe Biden and other Democrats of “attacking every rung of the ladder that helped me climb”.
But that positive messaging failed to sway Republican primary voters, and Scott struggled to gain traction with a party base that remains largely loyal to Trump, despite the 91 felony counts against the former president.
In more recent months, Scott explored darker rhetoric on the campaign trial in an apparent attempt to bolster his dwindling hopes of capturing the nomination. During the second Republican primary debate in late September, Scott implied that slavery had been more bearable for Black Americans than the Great Society, President Lyndon Johnson’s anti-poverty program that led to the creation of social welfare programs like Medicare and Medicaid. The comment won praise from Fox News commentators and sparked outrage among Scott’s critics, who accused Scott of downplaying the atrocities of slavery.
Weeks after that incident, Scott lambasted Biden over his response to the attacks carried out by Hamas on 7 October, which killed more than 1,400 Israelis. Blasting Biden’s foreign policy agenda, Scott accused the president of inadvertently causing the violence.
Scott later applauded the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, for his “restraint” in his response to the Hamas attacks. At the time Scott made the comment, Israeli airstrikes in Gaza had already reportedly killed a large number of Palestinians.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Despite Scott’s pivot to more severe rhetoric, his level of support in national primary polls remained in the low single digits, leaving him with no path to the nomination. Scott announced in October that he would shift his campaign resources to Iowa, zeroing in on the first voting state in a last-ditch effort to revive his campaign.
But that strategy failed to lift Scott’s polling numbers, and he has now formally suspended his campaign, as Trump cements his status as the clear frontrunner in the race.
Fulton county prosecutors have asked the judge overseeing the 2020 election subversion case against Donald Trump and his co-defendants in Georgia to immediately impose an “emergency” protective order over the discovery materials to prevent potential future leaks of evidence.
The request came after several media outlets published details of videotaped statements that former Trump lawyers Jenna Ellis, Sidney Powell and Kenneth Chesebro gave as part of plea deals to avoid being tried as racketeering co-defendants with the former president.
The Fulton county district attorney Fani Willis had previously asked for a protective order for the discovery materials in the case. But citing the leak of several of the “proffer” interviews, Willis renewed the request on Tuesday to Fulton county superior court judge Scott McAfee.
“The release of these confidential video recordings is clearly intended to intimidate witnesses,” the filing said, “subjecting them to harassment and threats prior to trial, constitutes indirect communication about the facts of this case with co-defendants and witnesses”.
Trump has pleaded not guilty to charges that he and 18 co-defendants engaged in racketeering activity and conspired to overturn the results of the 2020 election results in the state of Georgia. To date, three of Trump’s ex-lawyers and a local Republican operative have taken plea deals.
The actual motivation for the leaks were unclear. Ellis’s testimony, for instance, was widely seen as damaging to Trump – and the move to seek a protective order amounted to an aggressive play by prosecutors to suppress discussion of the proffers leading up to trial.
Willis also said in the filing that she would take the unusual step of refusing to send copies of the video recordings to defense lawyers, and that they would instead have to watch the recordings at her office in downtown Atlanta, where they could only take notes.
In the separate federal 2020 election subversion case brought against Trump in Washington, the discovery materials were subject to a protective order almost as soon as Trump was charged. But special counsel prosecutors have not forced Trump’s lawyers to only view the discovery in person.
The prosecutors disclosed in their submission to the judge some back-and-forth communications they had with a couple defense lawyers over the leaks, including with Trump’s lawyer Steve Sadow, who had asked the district attorney’s office to state they had not leaked the material.
Get all the latest updates from court as Trump faces several criminal cases, starting later this year.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
“The state had nothing to do with leaking any information to the media!” replied Nathan Wade, one of the top prosecutors on the case.
But then a lawyer for Harrison Floyd, a Trump ally charged with harassing Georgia election worker Ruby Freeman, replied to the email chain on Tuesday morning, writing, “It was Harrison Floyd’s team.” The lawyer later said the statement was a typo and that they were not the leak.
Willis first requested a protective order on 27 September. The delay with the protective order, according to a person familiar with the matter, has been over a protracted negotiation between the district attorney’s office and all 19 co-defendants over the language in the order.
Donald Trump’s eldest son hailed the “sexiness” of his father’s properties after returning to the stand at the $250m fraud trial over the former president’s real estate empire.
Lawyers for the Trump Organization summoned Donald Trump Jr at the start of the seventh week of the New York civil trial.
He showered praise on his father, who was not present in court on Monday. The former president “has been good at finding value, doing something differently” and identifying “sexiness within a real estate project”, Trump Jr said.
This helped the company attract licensing deals with other developers who wanted to emulate his style, Trump Jr suggested, adding that his father had “built some of the most incredible assets in the world”.
“It’s just a sexy place,” he said of Trump Tower. The ex-president “really created a market for a sexy condominium”, his son told the court.
The New York attorney general’s office is suing Donald Trump, his adult sons and other executives at the Trump Organization for inflating the value of assets on financial statements. They rested their case after Ivanka Trump testified last Wednesday.
Trump faces a fine of at least $250m if found guilty at the end of the trial. The New York judge Arthur Engoron has already ruled Trump should have his business licenses revoked for fraud, although the ruling is going through an appellate court.
The former president and three of his children – Trump Jr, Eric and Ivanka – have already been summoned to give evidence at trial by lawyers for the New York attorney general. Now defense lawyers are working through their own witness list.
While Trump Jr and Eric are executive vice-presidents at the Trump Organization and named defendants alongside their father, Ivanka left the business in 2017 to serve in the White House, and is not a defendant.
Get all the latest updates from court as Trump faces several criminal cases, starting later this year.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
In court Trump Jr described himself as the “big-picture deals guy”, while Eric was said to be involved in the day-to-day operations of the family business. Both brothers are “much more responsible than prior to 2017”, when their father assumed the presidency, he said.
Since 2021, however, when Trump left office, he “could get involved, and he chooses to, on certain things”, Trump Jr said.
After concluding his testimony on Monday afternoon, the eldest Trump son reiterated previous criticisms of Letitia James, the New York attorney general, outside court. There is “no actual person complaining other than the attorney general herself”, he suggested.
Joe Biden should sharpen his economic message by acknowledging voters’ pain and drawing a more direct contrast with Donald Trump to revive his ailing poll numbers, according to research presented to the White House and seen by the Guardian.
Surveys by the Progressive Change Campaign Committee (PCCC), a grassroots organisation aligned with Senator Elizabeth Warren, found that voters trust Republicans over Democrats to handle the economy – but there are ways to close the gap by highlighting Trump’s past mistakes and threat to social security.
“We cannot just repeat over and over again that the economy is doing great and expect repetition to win us the trust of the public,” said Adam Green, cofounder of the PCCC, who has held meetings with top officials in the White House, House of Representatives and Senate Democratic leadership and senior political operatives around Washington.
America’s economy is performing well by most measures. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rose at a 4.9% annual rate during the July to September quarter, defying predictions of a recession. Unemployment is at its lowest level for half a century and inflation has fallen to the lowest rate in any G7 country.
But it appears that the public are not buying “Bidenomics”. In a recent New York Times and Siena College opinion poll, voters said they prefer Trump – the frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination – over Biden on the economy by a 59% to 37% margin.
National polling conducted by the PCCC and the Data for Progress thinktank from September to November rings further alarm bells going into Biden’s re-election campaign. Asked which party they trust more to handle the economy, 42% of likely voters say Republicans, 35% say Democrats and 20% say neither. But the research also found that message framing is crucial.
There are signs that the Biden re-election campaign is increasingly conscious of such dynamics.
Whereas the president’s early speeches touting “Bidenomics” focused mainly on his accomplishments, more recently he has been highlighting the perceived threat of Republicans, while White House messaging has featured a “split screen” feature that draws a sharp contrast.
The survey found that a message that blames Trump for gutting funding for pandemic preparedness, which left America unprepared for Covid-19, still leaves Democrats with a deficit of 14 percentage points. But asserting that Trump mismanaged the economy by cutting taxes for billionaires and failing to fight back against corporate price gouging on gas and groceries cuts the gap to just four points.
The PCCC’s research shows that Democrats can drive a contrast over taxing the wealthy to boost social security. The statement “Billionaires and other wealthy Americans should have to pay social security taxes at the same rate as other Americans” has support from 79% of independent voters.
Furthermore, the assertion that “Democrats support increasing taxes on billionaires and support increasing funding for programs like social security” gives the party an 11-percentage point lead. While adding a second sentence – “Republicans are pushing to cut taxes on billionaires and are pushing to cut funding for programs like social security” – doubles the advantage to 22 percentage points.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Green’s Progressive Change Institute found common ground with the White House, Congress and other partners in a recent initiative to crack down on junk fees, staging numerous public events that gained local media coverage. He has had numerous West Wing meetings to discuss the latest findings.
“When we talked to the White House, Senate folks, House folks, everybody seemed to acknowledge that the data was intuitive and in some cases new. We identified pockets for future conversation strategically.
A string of opinion polls have shown Biden trailing Trump in swing states, although Democrats’ strong performance in last week’s state elections, with abortion rights again a key issue, gave the 80-year-old president a timely boost.
But Republicans continue to target “Bidenflation” as a potential vote winner while Democrats have long been criticised for wonky communications that appeal to the head rather than the heart.