The world’s biggest producer of iPhones is going to outer space.
Two prototype low-Earth orbit satellites made by Hon Hai Precision Industry, better known as Foxconn Technology Group, took off aboard a SpaceX rocket from Vandenberg Space Force Base in southern California on Saturday.
The launch of the LEO satellites marks a key moment for the Taiwanese electronics manufacturer as it diversifies into new sectors, a shift that is taking greater urgency as some of its established businesses such as smartphones and laptops struggle. Foxconn is aiming to demonstrate that it has satellite technology to tap growing demand for communications from space.
A top-selling biography of billionaire Elon Musk is being adapted into a film with prolific US director Darren Aronofsky already attached, production company A24 said on Friday.
The author of “Elon Musk,” star biographer Walter Isaacson, had a previous book on Apple founder Steve Jobs made into a 2015 film starring Michael Fassbender.
Elon Musk’s artificial intelligence startup xAI will be integrated into his social media platform X and also be available as a standalone app, he said on Sunday in a post.
The billionaire also said xAI released its first AI model, a bot named Grok, after making it available to all X Premium+ subscribers on Friday.
The startup aims to create AI tools that “assist humanity in its quest for understanding and knowledge” and that Grok has been designed to answer questions with a bit of wit.
Billionaire Elon Musk welcomed China’s engagement on artificial intelligence safety and said he wanted to see Beijing aligned with Britain and the United States on the subject, speaking in London on Thursday alongside British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.
Musk backed China’s inclusion in the first AI Safety Summit, hosted at Bletchley Park, England, which has drawn leading companies and nations together to agree initial steps on how to manage the risks of cutting-edge AI models.
Elon Musk, the richest man on Earth according to Forbes, lives in a rented US$50,000 “box home”, sold most of his luxury properties, and once told his former partner Grimes she couldn’t buy a new mattress when she discovered a hole in the one they were sleeping on.
But that doesn’t mean Musk doesn’t splurge at all – quite the contrary. He indulges in hobbies and vices like everyone else – his choices just tend to be a little less conventional than most.
Since his first brush with fame, Musk has been clear that it is his personal mission to colonise Mars, and he created SpaceX with exactly that goal in mind. The billionaire believes humans need a contingency plan should Earth become non-viable, and announced in 2021 that he wants as much of his US$225 billion net worth as possible to go into the project.
Per Insider, Musk said that building a city on Mars would require “just a lot of capital” and that he wanted to “be able to contribute as much as possible”. To illustrate his seriousness about investing his fortune for “the sake of humanity”, Musk said he was eschewing material possessions, including his impressive property portfolio.
Who are Tiger Woods’ teen kids with ex-wife Elin Nordegren?
Back in 2012, Musk made headlines when he dropped US$17 million on a 20,248 sq ft mansion in Bel Air, California. According to the Los Angeles Times, the home had a two-story library, a study, wine cellar, tennis court, seven bedrooms and 10 bathrooms. At the time, he dropped millions investing in at least five other neighbouring properties, according to Observer.
Then, in May 2020, he had a change of heart, vowing to “own no house” so as not to be seen as materialistic by his critics, and prove his dedication to his companies. According to Sky News, he then sold seven of his homes in California for a combined US$128 million. Musk’s primary home is now a US$50,000 dollar home in Boca Chica, Texas, which he rents from SpaceX.
It’s no surprise that the Tesla and SpaceX boss has an interest in unusual cars. Per Insider, Musk bought the Lotus Esprit submarine car in 2013. The car is famous for its appearance in the James Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me. According to reports, Musk paid US$920,000 for the car at an auction.
According to NBC News, the car is in fact a working submarine, but one which reportedly allows the interior to fill with water, requiring the pilot to breath from an oxygen tank. In the film, however, Roger Moore who played Bond, remains completely dry. Musk said in a statement that he was disappointed the vehicle couldn’t actually transform. “What I’m going to do is upgrade it with a Tesla electric power train and try to make it transform for real,” he said.
Netflix’s Beckham: who are Posh and Becks’ 4 kids and where are they today?
The billionaire may have done away with his luxury pads, but when it comes to travel, Musk hasn’t resorted to flying economy just yet. Rather, he owns an impressive Gulfstream G650ER worth an estimated US$70 million. According to Insider, the G650 is one of the world’s fastest, largest and longest-range private aircraft.
The ultra-long-haul flagship jet grabbed headlines after Jack Sweeney, a student from Orlando, Florida, began regularly tweeting the whereabouts of the richest man on Earth. Musk enrolled in a free Federal Aviation Administration programme that allows private jet owners to conceal their locations by transmitting alternative identity codes. The hack didn’t work, however, and thanks to Sweeney, the whole world always knows where Musk, or anyone who uses his jet, is – albeit with a 24-hour delay.
It’s not just the submarine car that caught his attention. Musk clearly has a thing for unusual and rare vehicles. According to Insider, over the years, he has owned a 1920 Ford Model T, a 1967 Series 1 Jaguar E-Type and a McLaren F1 that sells for an impressive US$1 million brand new.
Musk also famously sent his own 2o10 Tesla Roadster – which he used to commute to work in – up into space as part SpaceX’s February 2018 Falcon Heavy test flight. The car continues to orbit the sun.
What does Michael Jordan think of his son’s relationship with Larsa Pippen?
It’s no secret that Musk used to live an unhealthy lifestyle. The confessed workaholic, who has previously spoken about clocking between 100-120 hours work a week, relied heavily on caffeine to sustain him. According to Insider, he used to drink at least eight cans of Coke Light a day, as well as several big cups of coffee.
Never in short supply of his favourite beverage, Musk continues to drop money on his habit – but has at least turned to the caffeine-free version. In a social media post in 2022, he shared an image of his bedside table which showed four cans of caffeine-free Diet Coke, two guns and various other bits and pieces.
Billionaire Elon Musk on Saturday said that his Starlink satellite service would support internet access for “internationally recognised aid organisations in Gaza”, which have faced a telecommunications blackout since Friday.
Starlink is a network of satellites in low Earth orbit that can provide internet to remote locations, or areas that have had normal communications infrastructure disabled.
Musk, who owns Starlink operator SpaceX, was responding to a post by US Democrat congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in which she called the communications blackout in Gaza “unacceptable”.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said on Wednesday that he was concerned about the impact of high interest rates on car buyers, adding the electric vehicle maker was hesitating on its plans for a factory in Mexico as it gauges the economic outlook.
After the company missed Wall Street expectations on third-quarter gross margin, profit and revenue, Musk said he was cautious about going “full tilt” on the Mexico factory.
“If the macroeconomic conditions are stormy, even the best ship is still going to have tough times,” he said in a shift in tone from a year ago, when he said Tesla was “recession resilient”.
The social media site X, formerly known as Twitter, has announced that it has begun charging new users in New Zealand and the Philippines to use basic features like posting messages.
Under the trial, new web users in the Philippines and New Zealand will have to pay X around US$0.75 and US$0.85, respectively, every year, in order to access basic functionality like posting on the site.
Qatar Airways’ award-winning business class is not the airline’s only moneymaker.
Unbeknown to many fliers, Doha-based Qatar has a private charter division called Qatar Executive that caters to the airline’s “ultra-high-net-worth individuals”.
Founded in 2009, the wholly owned business sports a fleet of 20 customised private jets, including the Gulfstream G650ER, the recently delivered Gulfstream G700 and the Bombardier Global 5000. However, the biggest and most extravagant option is the US$73 million Airbus ACJ319, which is the business version of the manufacturer’s commercial A319 airliner. ACJ stands for Airbus Corporate Jets.
Qatar Executive actually has two versions of the plane, one with a VIP layout and one that serves as an air ambulance with two medical stations.
To get an idea of how the company’s most elite customers travel, I toured Qatar Executive’s VIP ACJ319 at the Paris Air Show in June – take a look inside.
According to Planespotters, the converted airliner was actually a Qatar government plane for over 20 years before being transferred to Qatar Executive for private charters – and it’s exactly what I imagine when I think of how the world’s richest people travel.
Starting at the front of the jet, customers will enter and turn right into a narrow hallway that leads to the various seating options on board. The grand entrance provides a heightened sense of privacy as the cockpit and jump seats are completely separate from the passenger area.
Unlike other large business planes like Donald Trump’s Boeing 757 or the Bombardier Global 7500, the bedroom on Qatar’s ACJ319 is located at the front of the plane instead of the back.
The room is complete with a bed, plush linens, pyjamas, a side table and a large flat screen television.
The bedroom is fully private and easily big enough for two people to snooze on long flights, especially since the ACJ319 can fly about 11,265km nonstop – meaning the jet can connect cities like New York and Rio de Janeiro, Paris and Johannesburg, and Shanghai and Sydney.
Near the bedroom is a large private lavatory stocked with towels and toiletries. There’s also a window by the toilet, which is a unique place to be getting a bird’s-eye view of the Earth.
Beyond the bedroom is an open cabin that looks to be useful for meetings, dining or playing tabletop games. There were two sets of four loungers each surrounding a table, which was set up with a tablecloth and silverware for eating.
The reclining seats were huge and comfortable – easily a much nicer place to work compared to an office cubicle.
Separated by a curtain, this section of the ACJ319 is where those not lucky enough to claim the bedroom can get some shut-eye.
The 10 best airlines in the world in 2023 – how does HK’s Cathay Pacific score?
The plane is good for situations like families travelling together or colleagues heading out on a business trip, with space for 19 people in total.
The cabin features 12 lie-flat beds in a 2 x 2 layout, meaning they have business-class-like perks, but window seat passengers lack direct access to the aisle. When the aisle seat is in lie-flat mode, the window seat passenger will have to climb over to get to the aisle – or ask their neighbour to adjust the seat, which can be a hassle.
However, considering the clientele, Qatar likely doesn’t see this as a big concern since guests are likely to already know each other.
The loungers are actually pretty similar to Qatar’s old business class before it introduced its award-winning Q-Suites. Passengers may recognise the colours and design, a well as the little touches like storage and an amenity kit.
However, the seat did lack the large entertainment screens typically present on lie-flat products – but Qatar Executive has a different offering.
In lieu of a seat back screen, the company has installed a mount for iPads, which are distributed to guests and loaded with films and TV shows.
This is common on other large private airliners, like the Abercrombie & Kent Boeing 757 that operates “air cruises” with lie-flat business class seats.
Behind business class, customers find another lavatory, a wardrobe and two crew rest seats, all of which are curtained off. Crew rest areas are common in long-haul private jets like the ACJ319 to ensure pilots and flight attendants get their required rest.
You can also find crew rest areas on smaller business planes like the G650ER, as well as on jetliners like United Airlines’ Boeing 767 or JetBlue Airways’ Airbus A321neo.
As far as the meal service, guests can cater the food they want on board, which will be served by flight attendants, thanks to the large galley in the back of the plane. Customers can probably eat anywhere on board, but the aforementioned dining area makes the experience more high-class.
The dining table is common on board large private jet as companies like Airbus cater to the wants of VIP customers – specifically separate living areas for eating, sleeping, working or just watching TV.
According to private jet charter broker Air Charters Advisor, the per hour cost to operate the Airbus narrowbody starts at US$16,500 but will vary based on factors like fuel cost and demand. This means an eight-hour journey from Chicago to London could cost at least US$132,000 one-way.
While Qatar Executive’s biggest private jet option is the ACJ319, those with a smaller party may opt for the carrier’s G700 plane once it starts flying.
Expected to start serving VIP customers in the coming months, the newest addition to the Qatar Executive fleet is the G700 with a total of 10 on order. The jet sports a club area with tables and large loungers, an entertainment room with a convertible couch, as well as a separate bedroom.
Albeit smaller, the US$75 million G700 is still one of the largest purpose-built private planes on the market – meaning it wasn’t originally an airliner reconfigured as a business plane like the ACJ319.
Meanwhile, Qatar also sports the world’s biggest fleet of Gulfstream G650ERs, frequently used by billionaires like Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos.
The 15-strong G650ER fleet has been Qatar Executive’s workhorse since 2015 and the lavish planes come with most of the perks of the G700 – including the bedroom.
This article originally appeared on Insider.
The Securities and Exchange Commission said Thursday it is seeking a court order that would compel Elon Musk to testify as part of an investigation into his purchase of Twitter, now called X.
The SEC said in a filing in a San Francisco federal court that Musk failed to appear for testimony on September 15 despite an investigative subpoena served by the SEC and having raised no objections at the time it was served.
In a memo to staff, Elon Musk said his social media company was worth about US$20 billion. He paid US$44 billion for it. That is a big loss after he rebranded Twitter as X.
While many branding gurus, keyboard warriors and journalists argue that he made a giant mistake, I do not agree. His vision to make X an “everything app” could challenge the stronghold of multifunctional platforms such as Facebook and WeChat and possibly revolutionise the way we interact with the internet.
To realise that vision, Musk must quickly learn how to attract the right audience, strengthen the platform’s tech capabilities and deliver unique, repeatable and expanding value.
An enthusiastic group of pro bono programmers strewn across the globe, including in Hong Kong, are building the open source, crypto-focused super app of Elon Musk’s dreams – but without the app.
For the past year, a dedicated group of developers have been working on a decentralised social media protocol, with new features rolling out at a pace that makes it hard to keep track. Updates made this year to the protocol, which was started in late 2020, and to related apps encompass everything from a marketplace with cryptocurrency payments to a TikTok-like short video feed.
The Nostr protocol has kindled such enthusiasm in a core group of users that they have taken to putting on conferences around the world, including an upcoming dual-city event called Nostrasia in Tokyo and Hong Kong from November 1 to 3.
X, formerly known as Twitter, must pay US$1.1 million in legal fees racked up by a group of the social-media platform’s former top executives, a judge ruled.
Lawyers for the group – led by ex-Twitter chief executive officer Parag Agrawal and former top lawyer Vijaya Gadde – Tuesday persuaded Delaware Chancery Court Judge Kathaleen St. J. McCormick that Twitter violated its duties to cover legal expenses generated by their work for the company.
The former executives argued Twitter violated its own by-laws by refusing to cover the sums even though they were tied to investigations of the social-media platform’s operations. They were ousted when billionaire Elon Musk bought the company for US$44 billion last year. Musk has faced a raft of lawsuits over his failure to pay Twitter vendors for things such as rent and consulting fees.
Ukrainian officials reacted to a social media post by billionaire Elon Musk that made fun of President Volodymyr Zelensky’s repeated calls for Western military and financial aid to fight Russian forces.
Musk owns the social media platform X – formerly known as Twitter – where he posted a meme of Zelensky earlier Monday.
The caption read: “When it’s been five minutes and you haven’t asked for a billion dollars in aid”.
Billionaire Elon Musk waded into the US immigration debate, paying a visit to the Texas border with Mexico to meet with local politicians and law enforcement and obtain what he called an “unfiltered” view of the situation.
Musk’s visit on Thursday came as thousands of migrants have ventured to northern Mexico in recent days on freight trains and buses, then crossed the US border into Texas, Arizona and California in an upswing in arrivals of people seeking asylum in the United States.
The sharp increase, notably around San Diego, California, and the Texas border towns of El Paso and Eagle Pass, follows an earlier lull in unauthorised border crossings following a new asylum policy imposed by Democratic President Joe Biden’s administration to discourage such activity.
A top European Union official said Tuesday that the social network X, formerly known as Twitter, is the biggest source of fake news and urged owner Elon Musk to comply with the bloc’s laws aimed at combating disinformation.
Ahead of upcoming elections, Google, TikTok, Microsoft and Meta also have more to do to tackle disinformation, much of it coming from Russia, which is using social media to wage a “war of ideas” against democracy, European Commission Vice-President Vera Jourova said.
Moscow’s disinformation operation “is a multimillion-euro weapon of mass manipulation aimed both internally at the Russians as well as at Europeans and the rest of the world”, she said at a press briefing in Brussels.
As the final quarter of 2023 draws near, Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos are leading a list of 10 mega-billionaires who have seen the biggest wealth surges this year, supercharged by a stock-market rally that steamrolled recession calls.
The top 10 wealth gainers of 2023 added a stunning US$397 billion to their combined fortunes year-to-date, according to calculations based on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.
Musk, whose life was chronicled in a biography published recently, saw the steepest jump in net worth with a US$99 billion increase to US$236 billion, cementing his position as the world’s richest person. That corresponded with a 107 per cent surge in the stock price of his electric car company Tesla.
The billionaire owns around 13 per cent of the EV maker and holds over 300 million exercisable options – as such, his personal fortune is inextricably tied to the stock-market performance of the firm.
Zuckerberg ranked No 2 on the list of wealth gainers, with a US$61.9 billion increase in his riches to US$108 billion. The increase was fuelled by a 151 per cent year-to-date rally in the stock of his firm Meta Platforms.
Jeff Bezos came third, adding US$46.5 billion.
Also on the list were Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Oracle’s Larry Ellison, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang, former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, Michael Dell and Spanish tycoon Amancio Ortega, who owns fast fashion giant Zara.
Interestingly, nine of the 10 billionaires were from the tech sector – underscoring how the biggest wealth-creating theme of 2023 has been the rally in technology stocks, fuelled by the investor exuberance over the rise of artificial intelligence. Ortega, founder of the Inditex fashion group, was the only exception to this.
Nvidia CEO Huang’s wealth surged by US$22.2 billion in 2023 as the chipmaker’s stock rocketed 187 per cent, outperforming every other stock in the S&P 500 index.
This article originally appeared on Insider.
Walter Isaacson is an experienced biographer, covering the lives of remarkable public figures like Einstein, Benjamin Franklin, Jennifer Doudna and Steve Jobs.
His latest book about one of the world’s richest (and most controversial) men, Elon Musk, has given new insight into the tech billionaire. Isaacson spent two years shadowing Musk, getting unprecedented access to the X (formerly Twitter) boss as well as his friends, family and colleagues.
The biography, titled simply Elon Musk, was released on September 12 and is filled with intimate details about the billionaire’s life, from his early life in South Africa to his relationships and his desire for “smart people” to have kids.
So what are the book’s biggest revelations?
Shivon Zilis, the Neuralink executive who has twins with Musk, revealed in the book that she and the billionaire never actually dated. Zilis told Isaacson that Musk donated his sperm so that her children would be genetically his. She explained that “he really wants smart people to have kids, so he encouraged me to”.
She added that she assumed Musk would not be a big part of the children’s lives, but has been surprised to see him bonding with the twins – a boy named Strider Sekhar Sirius and a girl named Azure.
What makes the situation even more complicated though is that when Zilis was pregnant, Musk was still in a relationship with Grimes – and she was completely unaware of her then-boyfriend’s birth plan. The former couple had also just decided to have another child via surrogate after the birth of their son X. As if that isn’t enough, Grimes and Zilis were even at the same Austin hospital at one point.
The biography also revealed for the first time that Musk and Grimes have had a third child together named Techno Mechanicus or Tau. The age of the child and other details were not provided.
In April 2017, Musk and actress Amber Heard went public with their relationship. For the next year they were on-again and off-again, finally ending it in 2018, reports People magazine.
Musk and Heard spoke to Isaacson about their romance and even detailed intimate moments, including how the Aquaman star donned a costume in order to role-play for Musk after he said she reminded him of Mercy, a character from the Overwatch video game.
The book also details how Musk met one of his ex-wives, British actress Talulah Riley. After splitting from his wife Justine Wilson in July 2008, Musk was in London to speak at the Royal Aeronautical Society. He saw Riley come into the nightclub he was in and asked if he could put his hand on her knee, then asked for her number.
They saw each other for the next three days, with Riley visiting Musk in LA afterwards. At the end of that trip, Musk proposed. But he didn’t have an engagement ring, so the couple “shook” on it instead. They got married in 2010 and split two years later. They tied the knot for a second time in July 2013, but Musk filed for divorce in 2014, with that petition being withdrawn soon afterwards. Riley then filed for divorce in 2016, which was finalised in November that year. Talk about a romantic roller-coaster.
In 2018, his relationship with Claire Boucher, better known as Grimes, became public knowledge after the pair appeared together at the Met Gala. The book explains how Musk played an influential role in the design of the dress that Grimes wore to event.
He suggested a “medieval-punk black-and-white ensemble with a hard glass corset and a necklace made of spikes to resemble the Tesla logo”. He was so invested in the look, he even tasked a Tesla design employee to work on it.
Elon’s estrangement from his father Errol has been well-documented. Isaacson describes Errol as a “charismatic fantasist who to this day bedevils Elon”.
The biography details how Elon felt tormented by his father until he left his childhood home in Pretoria, South Africa. He moved to Canada when he was 17. Errol, 77, is in a relationship with his stepdaughter Jana Bezuidenhout, 35, and the two share two children – which Elon has struggled with.
But while the Musk men might have their difficulties, Isaacson wrote that Elon has similar mood swings to his father. His first wife Wilson said that it is “difficult not to be shaped by what we grew up with, even when that’s not what we want”.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has urged tech tycoon Elon Musk to open his next Tesla factory in Turkey, becoming the latest leader to lobby one of the world’s richest men.
Erdogan and Musk have held a string of meetings both in Turkey and on the sidelines of international forums, developing a seeming friendship that they extended on Sunday in New York.
Turkish television on Monday showed Musk entering New York’s Turkish House, a new skyscraper across from the United Nations building, with his three-year-old son, whom he held on his lap during the talks.
American technology leaders including Tesla CEO Elon Musk, Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai met US lawmakers at Capitol Hill on Wednesday for a closed-door forum that focused on regulating artificial intelligence.
Lawmakers are grappling with how to mitigate the dangers of the emerging technology, which has experienced a boom in investment and consumer popularity since the release of OpenAI’s ChatGPT chatbot.
“It’s important for us to have a referee,” Musk told reporters, adding that a regulator was needed “to ensure that companies take actions that are safe and in the general interest of the public”.