Bletchley Park, a milestone in Alan Turing’s journey to technological immortality, heard warnings this week that the coming wave of artificial intelligence systems could threaten humanity.
But for one of the world’s leading tech investors, holding back AI development will be just as damaging in terms of deaths in car crashes, pandemics and poorly targeted munitions that could have been prevented by the technology.
“We believe any deceleration of AI will cost lives. Deaths that were preventable by the AI that was prevented from existing is a form of murder,” wrote Marc Andreessen, an early investor in Facebook, Pinterest and Twitter, in a blogpost last month titled The Techno-Optimist Manifesto.
When it comes to AI, Andreessen is not the only techno-optimist out there, despite the pessimistic view of the technology dominating the agenda in the run-up to last week’s AI safety summit at Bletchley.
Elon Musk described AI at the gathering as “one of the biggest threats to humanity”, but in a conversation with Rishi Sunak on Thursday he also cast the technology in utopian terms. AI is “a magic genie” that grants you limitless wishes and will usher in an “age of abundance”, he said. This is the more benign view of artificial general intelligence, a theoretical system that can carry out an array of tasks at human or above-human levels of intelligence. Musk has said his AI venture, xAI, will attempt to build a system that is “maximally curious” about humanity.
Others believe the existential fears – based on highly advanced AI systems evading human control and making decisions that threaten humanity – are overplayed. Nick Clegg, the former deputy prime minister turned powerful tech executive, this compared the fuss over AI to the 80s “moral panic” over video games. One of his colleagues – Yann LeCun, a respected figure in the field – has described concerns over AI wiping out humanity as “preposterous”.
Generally, however, the optimism is more nuanced than Andreessen’s impassioned take. Clegg, who attended the summit as president of global affairs at Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta, acknowledged this week that there are short-term threats that need to be addressed, such as the possibility that AI-generated disinformation will affect elections in the US, India, Indonesia, Mexico and the UK next year.
This caveated optimism was typical among attendees at the AI safety summit. Demis Hassabis, the chief executive of Google DeepMind, a world-leading AI research lab, has warned that dealing with the risks from artificial intelligence must be treated as seriously as the climate crisis. But he is also an unabashed optimist about the positive work that AI can do in fields such as health and medicine, as shown by his unit’s achievements in mapping protein structures via the AlphaFold program.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Some pessimists remain unconvinced by the summit’s achievements, such as an agreement on government involvement in testing new AI systems. Noortje Marres, a professor and expert in digital sociology at the University of Warwick, says the summit’s communique did not refer to any mechanism for involving citizens and affected groups in the governance of AI. “In other words, AI is not only harmful, it is profoundly undemocratic,” she says.
Andreessen, who describes AI as “our alchemy, our Philosopher’s Stone”, perhaps finds himself more of an outlier after events at Bletchley this week. If there is optimism, governments attending the summit would like it to be qualified.
Prof Dame Muffy Calder, the head of the college of science and engineering at the University of Glasgow, says risks such as disinformation and biases in the data sets that systems are trained upon need to be addressed.
Tory MPs have accused Rishi Sunak of “offering the electorate dystopia” after an appearance with Elon Musk in which the billionaire warned that artificial intelligence could take everyone’s jobs and leave them searching for meaning in their lives.
Many MPs were left baffled by the prime minister’s decision to conduct an interview with the Tesla and X (formerly Twitter) owner at the end of the AI safety summit at Bletchley Park. However, some are furious about the event, which painted a bleak picture of the future.
“I despair at No 10’s naivety,” said one senior Tory. “People are worried about their finances, climate change, pandemics, war in Eastern Europe and the Middle East and now the PM has provided Elon Musk with an interview platform to say, sometime soon, that they and their children will not have jobs, a life without meaning.
It comes at a crucial moment for Sunak before a highly political king’s speech in which he plans to cause trouble for Labour over net zero goals and also launch a battle to be seen as the party for homeowners and renters.
It’s utterly breathtaking. Unbelievable crassness. Who thought this was a good idea?
The Observer understands it will include a recommitment to a manifesto pledge to ban so-called “no fault” evictions. It comes after Sunak was warned by officials that the Tories would “face the consequences at the ballot box” if it failed to appeal to an expanding group of young renters. Michael Gove, the levelling up secretary, has said the ban would only kick in after reforms of the court system.
Rights for leaseholders and renters will also feature – but will be attacked by Labour as being diluted and far from the pledges previously made in the Tory manifesto. The speech will include a bill ensuring that all new houses in England and Wales will have to be sold as freehold properties, rather than leasehold, which leaves owners with extra costs. But Tory MPs already want Sunak to go further and include flats in the changes.
Labour has been gaining ground on the issue of housing. When asked which party would be better at helping people buy their own homes, an Opinium poll for the Observer last week found that 36% chose Labour, and only 16% the Conservatives. However, Sunak’s appearance with Musk, in which the billionaire said AI would eliminate the need for all jobs and raise the question of how we “find meaning in life”, has frustrated many Tories, as they return to Westminster still trailing Labour by a significant margin.
A former cabinet minister said: “[Sunak] has an enthusiasm for the subject. But it’s a medium-to-long-term issue, when what we need is a build-up to a good autumn statement following an ambitious, imaginative king’s speech.” Another veteran MP said: “I think accentuating how it benefits public services would be more productive.” Some MPs saw the Musk interview, and the attention on AI as a whole, as more evidence that Sunak was indulging in policies that matched his personal interests – such as a ban on smoking and the axing of HS2 north of Birmingham. Labour has accused him of angling for a post-No 10 job.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Downing Street is now focused on the king’s speech, the last government legislative programme before the next election. Insiders insist the statement will be substantial, despite limited time before the expected date of the general election next autumn.
Sunak signalled on Saturday night that crime would be at the heart of the speech. “Just as I have done with energy security, net zero, illegal migration and HS2, the king’s speech will take the long-term decisions to address the challenges this country faces, not the easy way out with short-term gimmicks,” he said.
A biopic of billionaire tech entrepreneur Elon Musk is now in the works after independent studio A24 won the adaptation rights to Walter Isaacson’s recent biography, with Black Swan’s Darren Aronofsky on board to direct.
Variety magazine reports that A24 triumphed in a “heated competition” bidding war to acquire Isaacson’s authorised biography Elon Musk, which was published in September. It was heavily criticised in some quarters, with the Guardian describing it as a “dull, insight-free doorstop of a book”, and it generated a number of controversies itself, with Isaacson forced to correct a suggestion that Musk had ordered his Starlink satellite communications network to be turned off to stop a Ukrainian drone attack on Russian warships.
A former chair and CEO of CNN, Isaacson is the author of a string of biographies, including Henry Kissinger, Benjamin Franklin and Einstein. His bestselling 2011 biography of Apple CEO Steve Jobs was adapted into the 2015 biopic of the same title starring Michael Fassbender and Kate Winslet, written by Aaron Sorkin and directed by Danny Boyle.
Aronofsky most recently directed The Whale, starring Brendan Fraser, for which Fraser won the best actor Oscar, while Aronofsky himself was nominated for the best director Oscar for dark ballet drama Black Swan.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Musk, 52, was born and raised in South Africa and, according to Isaacson, suffered “mental torture” at the hands of his father Errol, from who he is estranged. Musk is CEO and chief technology officer of SpaceX, and chairman and CTO of X Corp (formerly Twitter). He is also CEO of car company Tesla, but was fined and forced to step down as chairman in 2018 in a deal with US financial regulators after a series of misleading social media posts. Musk is currently ranked at number one on Forbes’ Real Time Billionaires list with a net worth of $223.8bn (£183.2bn).
In some ways the last two days have marked a real move forward in AI regulation. There is now an explicit consensus to take on an international shared responsibility. There are plans for further meetings in South Korea and France over the next year to continue the conversation surrounding risks posed by AI. However, critics have said that the focus on the more hypothetical aspects of existential threats as opposed to the more current, pressing problems – such as insurance companies using AI to determine your risk or AI’s potential to take people’s jobs – dilutes the impact of the summit.
This is an edited extract from the First Edition newsletter – sign up here for our free daily email, taking you through the top stories and what they mean.
Bringing the US and China together to sign this declaration is a diplomatic coup for Sunak as it is the first time that China has met with western governments to discuss the issue. The prime minister has batted away criticism for allowing China to join the summit – former prime minister Liz Truss wrote that she was “deeply disturbed” at the invitation and urged Sunak to rescind it. The government argued that China is a key player in the development of AI and that it should be at the table for the discussion to be truly global.
The US vice-president, Kamala Harris, stole some of Sunak’s thunder, as she arrived with a freshly minted White House executive order on AI that laid out actionable plans that the US government would be taking, including setting up its own institute that would police artificial intelligence. With all the noise and bluster of the summit, Sunak did not have plans with anywhere near as much detail to match. Though he insisted that he welcomed Harris’s intervention, it made it clear that the UK was not setting the agenda.
There is a sense now that “structures need to be put in place from individual countries to tackle AI”, Dan says, and Harris was signalling that the US has the blueprint for those plans.
Elon Musk is not necessarily at the forefront of the commercial side of AI but this was nonetheless a consequential meeting that gave the prime minister’s event a further level of importance.
Many did not know what to expect of the conversation: a world leader interviewing a tech billionaire one-on-one is not a regular occurrence. But once things got going it became clear quite quickly it was not going to be a difficult discussion. Instead, the pair traded compliments, with some commentators noting that it seemed like Sunak was angling for Musk’s approval. Kiran Stacey wrote in his analysis that the prime minister played “the role of eager chatshow host, keen to elicit drawled lessons on love, life and technology from the billionaire superstar sitting next to him”.
Before the summit Musk, co-founder of OpenAI, said that he would like a “third party referee”, a point that he reiterated in his 40-minute conversation with Sunak at Lancaster House. There was a chumminess throughout, with the prime minister piling on the praise, while Musk publicly backed some of Sunak’s decisions – like bringing in China.
Musk highlighted the potential benefits of AI, while simultaneously issuing stark warnings about “humanoid robots”, and predicted that there would be no jobs as AI would have taken them all. Despite some of his bleakest predictions, Musk also said that he believed AI to be a force for good.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
What happens next?
There is momentum behind the idea that more regulation and much closer oversight is needed of artificial intelligence in all its forms: “Government oversight is certainly a lot stronger than it was last week because of this summit,” Dan says.
Sunak has also insisted that he wants to ensure that the safety issues are dealt with in a way that avoids hampering innovation in the tech sector. He stressed that AI has the capacity to make people’s lives much better, in healthcare, education and the economy but later added that it could also wreak havoc on the same level as a pandemic or nuclear war.
Sunak said last week that “only governments can properly assess the risks to national security [that AI poses]. And only nation states have the power and legitimacy to keep their people safe.” But he added that we should not rush to regulation without fully understanding the risks. It is no secret that the prime minister wants tech companies to invest and develop their products in the UK, with the hope of economic benefits. How he plans to balance the goals of regulation and innovation remains unclear.
Earlier this week, Elon Musk was interviewed by the American podcast host Joe Rogan. On Wednesday he was grilled by reporters outside the AI safety summit in Bletchley Park. On Thursday, it was the turn of the British prime minister.
British officials have crowed for days about their success in getting the world’s richest man to attend the summit, which was a pet project for Sunak. So delighted were they at the UK’s pulling power they decided to give the X owner a 40-minute in-person conversation with the prime minister in the glamorous surrounds of Lancaster House, previously used as a set for The Crown.
Except what had been billed as “fireside chat” was not. Instead, Sunak played the role of eager chatshow host, keen to elicit drawled lessons on love, life and technology from the billionaire superstar sitting next to him.
“I’m very excited to have you here,” said Sunak, taking his jacket off and leaning forward in his chair. “Thanks for having me,” said Musk, relaxing back into his.
For 25 minutes, the prime minister quizzed Musk on his views on the summit and AI in general.
“What do we need to do to make sure we do enough [to regulate AI]?” asked Sunak. Later he suggested that technology was now developing even faster than “Moore’s law”, which suggests that computing power roughly doubles every two years, before checking himself. “Is that fair?” he asked Musk.
In case Musk took objection to any of the questions, Sunak made sure to frame them with flattery. “You are known for being such a brilliant innovator and technologist,” he said at one point.
Downing Street had been worried that the famously unpredictable Musk might say something off-colour or undiplomatic. Earlier this week he told Rogan he was worried that environmentalists might harness AI deliberately to eliminate all of mankind. He regularly rails against the “woke mind virus” and has said he bought X to prevent a “zombie apocalypse”.
Officials were so concerned that they changed what had been billed as a live broadcast on X into a recorded conversation, to be edited and put online after the pair had finished speaking.
They need not have worried, however. The blunt and often abrasive Musk familiar to millions of users of his social media platform was replaced by a softly-spoken personification of charm.
He praised Sunak’s efforts to regulate AI, telling him: “Having a referee is a good thing.” He listed London as second only to San Francisco in terms of global AI power. And he called Sunak’s decision to invite China to the summit “essential”. “Thank you for inviting them, and to China for attending,” he said.
But if Musk delighted his audience with compliments he also startled them with a stark vision of the future. There will be no jobs in the future, he predicted: AI will take them all. “One of the challenges of the future will be how do we find meaning in life,” he said.
For the reporters in the room, Sunak did have one thing to almost reveal. “Next year we will have elections in the US, India, Indonesia … and probably here,” he said.
The polls currently make him heavy favourite to lose that election. Maybe he will have a future working for X instead.
Oscar Wilde thought hard work “the refuge” of those with nothing better to do while he envisaged a society of “cultivated leisure” as machines performed the necessary and unpleasant tasks.
Karl Marx’s dream was of a society regulated general production that allowed liberated workers to “hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticise after dinner” without the drudgery of being tied to one job.
The 19th-century socialist activist William Morris advocated for more pleasurable work, believing that once the profit motive of the factory had been abolished, less necessary labour would led to a four-hour day.
So Elon Musk’s suggestion to Rishi Sunak that society could reach a point where “no job is needed” and “you can do a job if you want a job … but the AI will do everything” revives a debate on the issue of how we work that has long been discussed.
Yet a world without work, experts question, may be more dystopian than utopian.
“This is an old, old story that never actually happens,” said Tom Hodgkinson, co-founder of the Idler magazine, which for three decades has been a platform to examine issues surrounding work and leisure.
“There was a poem in ancient Greece saying, ‘Isn’t it wonderful that we have invented the watermill so that we no longer have to grind our corn? The women can sit around doing nothing all day from now on.’ It’s that kind of recurrent idea.
Despite that, he said, studies had shown that paid work was beneficial for mental health, for status and identity.
“I think we need to do some sort of work. We should be moving towards a shorter working week, and more leisure-filled society,” Hodgkinson said, adding that a radical overhaul of our economic and education models would be needed to eliminate work on the scale that Musk predicted.
One significant body of research in 2019, led by Brendan Burchell, professor in social sciences and a former president of Magdalene College, Cambridge, established that eight hours of paid employment a week was optimal in terms of benefit in mental health, and that no extra benefit was subsequently accrued.
Setting aside the “awful jobs that really screw you up”, Burchell said, “your average job is good for you” in terms of social interaction, working collectively, giving structure and sense of identity.
A world without work “is a terrible idea of what society would look like for all sorts of reasons, as well as people’s mental health”, he said.
The labour market, as a way of distributing money around the economy, would have to be transformed, as would the education system, “to teach people how to fill their days, by writing poetry or going fishing or whatever, instead of going to the factory or the office”, Burchell continued.
In his book Making Light Work: An End to Toil in the 21st Century, David Spencer, professor of economics at the University of Leeds, also makes the case for less work, but not its elimination. “It would leave us bereft potentially of things that we value in work,” he said, citing communal enterprise, personal relationships and the development of skillsets.
He draws from Morris, who talked about bringing joy to work. “Skilful work is good work and it has a role in the creation of a better society,” said Spencer. “We ought to use technology to create less and better work. In that sense, the future can be really positive.
Disinformation has flourished across a range of online platforms in the month since Hamas launched its bloody attack on Israel, fuelled by weak content regulation on X, formerly Twitter, and Telegram and at times propelled by state actors.
Widely shared faked news and false claims include efforts to downplay the horror of Hamas’s cross-border attack on 7 October through to distasteful allegations that Palestinians, already under heavy bombardment, are faking scenes of violence.
Jackson Hinkle, 22, an American far-right social media influencer with 2 million followers on X, formerly Twitter, who has styled himself as a “Maga communist”, claimed, without evidence, at the end of October that Hamas fighters shot fewer than 100 people, mostly armed settlers.
The death toll is estimated at more than 1,200 people, and they were killed inside Israel’s borders so could not have been settlers. But this was only one of Hinkle’s untruths: in the same 28 October posting he said that half of the Israelis killed during the Hamas assault were soldiers, many of whom died “during tank shelling”.
Hinkle, once a young supporter of the leftwing Democrat Bernie Sanders, has been banned from YouTube and Instagram for spreading disinformation, but thrives on X where his 7 October denial post has 5.1m views. The influencer cited the Israeli newspaper Haaretz as his source, although below the post sits a denial from the title.
Hinkle’s recent tweets include a photograph of him with a poster saying “Putin is good” and accusing the BBC of espousing “Zionist propaganda”. His agenda is stridently anti-Israel.
Other postings are transparently false: a claim he made on Telegram that “Yemen has announced they are now at war with Israel” was clearly untrue (the Houthi rebels who have fired missiles at Israel are not the government of the country).
This has not prevented Hinkle from appearing on the Russian-owned RT television news network as a “political analyst”, giving an interview in which he accused Israel of trying to force out the entire Palestinian population from Gaza, and hinted that US marines might be about to participate in a “a very big war”.
Pippa Allen-Kinross, the news editor with the factchecking website Full Fact, said that after more than a month of continuous conflict in Israel and Gaza, disinformation narratives were evolving and highlighted the growing visibility of “Pallywood” postings, claims that Palestinians were faking videos of suffering and distress.
Early in the conflict, on 13 October, the Israeli state’s official account on X tweeted a video of a child being taken to hospital alongside another image of the lifeless infant wrapped in a cloth. “Hamas accidentally posted a video of a doll (yes a doll) suggesting that it was a part of casualties caused by an IDF attack,” the now-deleted post, which was viewed at least 1.2m times, said.
The post was prompted by similar claims made by Israeli activists online, and other official accounts. Israeli embassies in France and Austria quickly followed suit, with the latter describing it as “Pallywood fake news” and the posting was widely shared. But the story, when checked, turned out to be untrue: the original film and the still image were of a four-year-old boy, Omar Bilal al-Banna, killed in Gaza City.
Journalists contacted the photographer and film-maker Momen El Halabi, who reported that a child had been killed – and that the body was not a doll – a story also confirmed by family members. Other images from El Halabi and another photographer on the scene show two men, relatives of the dead boy, carefully holding the swaddled body in such a way it could not be a doll.
A video, now-deleted from Facebook but still available on X, shows a row of bodies covered in white shrouds, and mocks them for still twitching, meaning they are not dead. Arabic text on the Facebook video accuses Hamas of being “the masters of fake news”, but in truth, as Full Fact points out, the film “is actually from a 2013 student protest in Cairo, Egypt”.
Adam Hadley, the founder of Tech against Terrorism, argued the situation was exacerbated – and likely to endure – because of the intensity of the conflict. “This is as much an information war, as it is a war on the ground, but perhaps more pronounced than a conflict like Ukraine, because of the polarisation we are witnessing,” he said.
Others, such as Eliot Higgins, the founder of the investigative journalism website Bellingcat, blamed cutbacks in content moderation at X and the introduction of the paid-for blue-tick system, which allows posters to get preferential treatment from the social network’s algorithm. “I certainly think the changes Elon Musk [X’s owner] has made have made the environment ripe for the spread of disinformation,” Higgins said.
Hadley also focuses on Telegram, from where many graphic Hamas and pro-Hamas videos emerge, which is generally lightly self-regulated. Last month, Pavel Durov, Telegram’s CEO, said he would not ban Hamas’s own channel, but then partially retreated. From the beginning of this month, users who download Telegram via Apple or Google are no longer able to see Hamas or its military wing’s channel.
he global AI safety summit opened at Bletchley Park on Wednesday with a landmark declaration from countries including the UK, US, EU and China that the technology poses a potentially catastrophic risk to humanity.
Here are some of the interventions from political and tech industry figures – as well as King Charles – on the day.
The world’s richest man and Tesla chief executive described AI as a threat to humanity.
Musk, who co-founded the ChatGPT developer OpenAI, has launched a new venture called xAI and is attending both days of the summit, which is being held about 50 miles from London at the site which played host to top-secret codebreakers during the second world war.
In comments to the PA news agency on the summit sidelines, he said it was “not clear we can control such a thing”, but “we can aspire to guide it in a direction that’s beneficial to humanity”.
The co-founder of DeepMind, a British company that was acquired by Google and is now at the centre of the search company’s AI efforts, said a pause in the technology’s development might have to be considered over the next five years.
However, Suleyman said current AI models, such as the one powering ChatGPT, did not pose a serious threat. “I don’t think there is any evidence today that frontier models of the size of [ChatGPT model] GPT-4 … present any significant catastrophic harms,” he said.
In a video message played to delegates at the beginning of the summit, the king described AI as “one of the greatest technological leaps in the history of human endeavour”.
He urged attenders to tackle the “challenges” of AI – such as protecting democracies – by taking the example of the climate crisis. He said governments, public sector, private sector and civil society had been joined together in a conversation about saving the environment and the same should be done for AI.
“That is how the international community has sought to tackle climate change, to light a path to net zero, and safeguard the future of our planet. We must similarly address the risks presented by AI with a sense of urgency, unity and collective strength,” he said.
The UK technology secretary has attempted to strike a balance between risk and opportunity at the summit, an awkward task amid communiques warning of potential catastrophe and presentations on bioweapon attacks.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Donelan added that the UK’s education and skill sectors needed to help people adapt to any AI-related job changes.
The European Commission’s vice-president for values and transparency said the UK was behind the US and EU in regulating AI by its “own decision”.
“They [the UK] take different paths,” said Jourová, adding that the UK approach was to “focus on the possible risks” and then “regulate later”.
Rishi Sunak has ruled out bringing in AI legislation immediately, saying the UK government needed to understand the technology better before regulating it.
Jourová said the UK’s position did not surprise her because when the country was an EU member, its stance on regulation was one of relying on a sector taking “social responsibility”.
At the start of each closed-door session, UK officials showed attenders their examples of how powerful AI models could make it easier for bad actors to wreak damage in a number of ways.
During one session, Matt Clifford, who was in charge of organising the summit, showed delegates how large language models could make it easier for bedroom hackers to launch phishing attacks.
“One of the things that’s been really challenging about this debate for policymakers over the last year is sometimes it feels like just trading thought experiments,” he said.
reat wealth has always signified status, but today tech wealth also signifies having special futuristic insights denied the rest of us, which the Silicon Valley billionaires are all too ready to dispense and we are too ready to receive. Thus the spectacle of the British prime minister fawning over the banal utterances of the world’s richest man as prophecies from an entrepreneurial god who deigns to walk among us. On the same day, a bizarre hi-tech huckster, once no less fawned over, was convicted of a $10bn fraud and faces imprisonment for up to 110 years. This bewildering world has robbed everyone from limelight-seeking political leaders to greedy investors of their senses. There has been a collective loss of our sceptical faculties.
The obstacle to any such scepticism is that amid the hype, banality, self-deception and sometimes outright fraud is the truth that, on occasion, real wealth and technological breakthroughs are being created at dizzying speed. Elon Musk, interviewed in that notorious “fireside chat” by Rishi Sunak after the prime minister had hosted the world’s first AI safety summit at Bletchley Park in Buckinghamshire last week, owes the bulk of his $200bn-plus fortune to the success of his electric car producer, Tesla. It has sold more than a million Model 3 vehicles, helping to deliver the death knell to the petrol engine and with it the age of fossil fuels.
Musk, a believer in climate change as humanity’s second biggest challenge, after “the existential threat” of artificial intelligence, might have taken the opportunity to challenge Sunak over his new enthusiasm for legacy oil and gas – but this was not an exchange designed for challenge by either man. It was designed to show British voters that Sunak is in the same cosy league as a tech god. There was to be no puncturing of the divine aura in which the supplicant and future-seer wanted to bask.
Musk certainly feels he has earned that aura. Along the way he has founded SpaceX, which has created the cheap reusable rocket that will open up space to human colonisation – from gravity-free manufacturing in space to solar energy captured in the heavens and beamed back to Earth. He cofounded PayPal and believes that tunnels can revolutionise city transport – hence the Boring Company. But he is not above mistakes. He has lost a cool $25bn through buying and diminishing Twitter (now X), and in 2018 was fined and disqualified from being Tesla chairman for three years by the Securities and Exchange Commission over alleged stock price manipulation. He is a very smart engineer who was in the right place at the right time – but no god.
Insane wealth is disorienting. The wealthy do start believing that different rules apply to them, as research from Dacher Keltner of Berkeley University’s Social Interaction Lab demonstrates. When they drive, they are likelier to infringe traffic rules, and in lab tests show themselves generally to be more greedy and more likely to cheat. Rules are for little people. The super-wealthy can even better justify ignoring rules if they are “effective altruists” aiming to give away their wealth for the benefit of humanity now and in the future – the message of the Oxford moral philosopher William MacAskill, adopted by both Musk and, even more, one Sam Bankman-Fried (or SBF). They live in a higher moral universe because they intend to serve humanity by donating it their fortunes.
Bankman-Fried, unlike Musk, created no real wealth. He stole it – at least $10bn. This mathematical nerd and computer game addict had met MacAskill at a lunch when a student at MIT in 2012. MacAskill persuaded him to go after high-earning jobs, with the aim of giving some of the money away as an effective altruist. Thus seven years later SBF would set up the crypto-currency trading platform FTX, allowing speculators to trade in the absurd crypto boom. It was, in effect, a casino in which flows of money were hard to trace – “ripples” in the jargon.
Crypto was the hi-tech fashion of the day: credulous investors begged to invest in FTX. SBF became the US’s youngest billionaire, worth $22bn. If traders’ cash was hard to trace, it could be easily siphoned into a Bankman-Fried affiliate – to be spent on parties, high living in the Bahamas, political donations and intended “effective altruism”. When the tide went out on crypto, it went out on FTX. Bankman-Fried was exposed as a mega-fraudster, but only after being fawned over by Hollywood, Wall Street, Washington, ex-president Bill Clinton and ex-prime minister Tony Blair, while dispensing his banal wisdom along the way.
Time needs to be called on all of this. The Bletchley Park summit agreed a voluntary code for AI companies to disclose their models to governments to ensure that they were safe – thus hoping to guard against potential “existential risks”. Worthwhile, but only a baby step. Public research on AI is dwarfed by tech giants whose AI models, once the same scale, are now on average 29 times larger than those produced by government and universities. Experts are divided over whether this new technology will be enormously positive or pose an existential risk to humanity. The public needs a guarantee from these profit-driven companies that it works unambiguously for our benefit.
Voluntarism is not good enough – only this May, Musk himself withdrew X from the EU’s voluntary code of practice on online disinformation and has so run down content-flagging that disinformation is flourishing on his platform. Sunak might have asked Musk about this undermining of the voluntary principle enshrined in the AI safety summit – but compulsion and the EU are toxic, and their mention might have punctured the aura. The initiative launched by the Oxford academic Philip Howard to create an International Panel on the Information Environment modelled on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change needs to be turbocharged. As Prof Howard says, AI may or may not existentially abolish work or create a dark world of surveillance, but in the meantime junk and fake news flourish – aided and abetted by Musk.
Above all, let’s recognise that tech wealth is partly generated by public agencies as much as derring-do entrepreneurship. Without Nasa and Darpa (the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency), there would have been no SpaceX or Tesla. Nor can we rely on “effective altruism” to achieve the common good, given all its capacity for abuse: taxation of wealth works incomparably better.
Lastly, human beings have fallen for the likes of Musk and Bank-Friedman for millennia. Instead of uncritically lionising all things technological and mathematical, never forget the lessons of undervalued literature and history – the best antidotes to a confused and credulous present. We have been here before, and the best response has always been tough, collective and societal.
few weeks ago, Elon Musk was begging Taylor Swift to release some concert videos on his X platform, but she weirdly seems to have gone ahead with her plan to release the film of her Eras tour directly into movie theatres, foolishly making it by far and away the highest grossing concert film ever, with opening numbers similar to the last Marvel movie. Sad, really, when you think it could have been a tweet. Still, I tell you who Elon Musk can get to release exclusive footage directly on to his platform: UK prime minister Rishi Sunak. Who is, famously, a Taylor Swift fan, so … next best thing.
Sunak’s interview of Musk was trailed by the PM with a post in which the famous 10 on the Downing Street front door morphed into the X logo, a somewhat excruciating stunt that unintentionally answered one of the key questions of the AI conference: just because you can do something, does it mean you should?
The event itself actually took place at Lancaster House, which I always think of as a cursed space of self-sabotage, given that it was where Theresa May made the January 2017 speech about her Brexit red lines, which did so very much to hamstring her next two and a half years of failed negotiations and torment. Anyway, I expect they’ve had an exorcist in since then, and the current PM went with a black backdrop reading RISHI SUNAK X ELON MUSK – ooh, hot new collab just dropped! – in which it felt quite sweet that Rishi had given himself first billing.
After all, the run-up to this interview had seen much of the coverage prejudge it as the most humiliating outing for a UK party leader since Ed Miliband ascended the stairs to Russell Brand’s flat during the 2015 election to participate in something called The Trews. I’m not sure that was fair: for all his obvious drawbacks and twattishness, Musk is a significant player in AI, and someone who knows rather more about what he is talking about on the subject than pretty much all of the international politicians attending the AI conference. I suppose the one drawback is that, unlike them, he isn’t democratically accountable. But hey – nor are China, and they got the call-up.
I can’t help feeling Sunak comes across as the sort of guy who would probably believe him. Given the softball nature of his Thursday night encounter with Musk, who only said things he had said before, the event felt chiefly most useful in what it revealed about Sunak, rather than the man in charge of some of Earth’s most significant companies and resources.
Sunak has always seemed intensely relaxed about a world in which national leaders gravitate to a more front-of-house role – glad-handing it in public, prancing about on the world stage, and generally looking like leaders even though they’d really only be the butlers to the true supranational overlords.
Perhaps that’s why the prime minister seems most in his element in situations like this Musk interview – they represent a future that doesn’t trouble him, let alone frighten him. Watching him giggle along to Musk’s wry but clear warnings about humanoid robots was a reminder that Sunak is an odd man who doesn’t really get a lot of things. For me, the definitive Sunak post on Musk’s platform will always be the one from the pandemic where he says: “I can’t wait to get back to the pub … and I don’t even drink,” accompanied by a picture of him doing a thumbs-up through the window of a luxury kettle shop. After Thursday night’s encounter, I slightly got the impression he could have watched the Terminator series rooting for Skynet.
Speaking of franchises, someone once said that Brett Ratner didn’t direct movies, he hosted them. And maybe that’s the UK now, with the power to host things but not to direct them. Sunak might have taken comfort from Musk’s assertion that San Francisco and London are the “two leading locations on Earth” for AI. Yet as a few decades of the London dirty money laundromat should have taught us by bitter experience, there’s quite a big gap between host and host organism – and I wouldn’t necessarily trust the UK to be on the right side of it.
What Just Happened?! by Marina Hyde (Guardian Faber Publishing, £9.99). To support The Guardian and Observer, order your copy at guardianbookshop.com. Delivery charges may apply.
Beyond the “Bletchley declaration” and leaders’ speeches at the AI summit (Report, 2 November), the lack of a global AI governance arrangement is starkly absent. It would seem that we now have three (rival) attempts to coordinate and lead – the US Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute based in Washington DC, the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence based in Paris and the new London-based AI Safety Institute. Each will try to establish focality and authority.
All will undoubtedly seek to attract the best minds and create legitimacy through quality of output. They will fail to establish this legitimacy unless they make the difficult choice of being set up as an intergovernmental organisation. Only by doing this will the world’s major powers, including China, be represented in a managed and fair way.
It took monumental shifts in national interests at the end of the second world war to establish Unesco and thereby the physics intergovernmental organisation of Cern in Geneva. Can the AI safety groupings and broader AI community meet the same high bar, or will the players be content to remain fragmented and ineffective? Can an inspirational leader be found for an AI organisation that can represent member states and their AI, and regulate willingly the powerful big tech companies?
Harold Wilson said technology would give us much more leisure. The subtext of that was that a lot of people will not be needed at their present repetitive work, ie they will become unemployed. Rishi Sunak recently said AI would create lots of new (unspecified) jobs. Doing what? Polishing robots?
Elon Musk has said that in future there will be no need to work and that there would be a need to find things to do. We are sentient beings and rather than die of boredom, the things found to occupy us might not be what he has in mind. The old saying “the devil finds work for idle hands to do” comes to mind. We will still have to earn our daily bread and other necessities or we will be enslaved by AI, not in control of it.
In a future world, Elon Musk predicted, there will be no jobs – AI will take them all. “One of the challenges of the future will be how do we find meaning in life,” he said (Sunak plays eager chatshow host as Musk discusses AI and politics, 2 November). Time to reissue The Collapse of Work (1979) and The Leisure Shock (1981) by Clive Jenkins – published 40 years before their time.
How ironic that on the day of the Beatles final release, Elon Musk tells us that all jobs in future will be done by AI. I don’t believe that an algorithm steeped in all the popular music that had gone before could have come up with Strawberry Fields Forever, which was like nothing in the history of pop music.
At a stretch, AI may have produced Chirpy Chirpy Cheep Cheep, a song that I always figured was written by an automaton anyway. I suspect humans may have other irreplaceable qualities as well.
In the past few days I have dealt with a roofer, a wasp eradicator and a decorator. I await Elon Musk’s vision for how AI will replace them.
Have an opinion on anything you’ve read in the Guardian today? Please email us your letter and it will be considered for publication in our letters section.
Artificial intelligence could pose a risk to humanity on the scale of a pandemic or nuclear war, Rishi Sunak has warned as world leaders gather at Bletchley Park to discuss how to regulate the industry.
The prime minister said he was concerned about the risk posed to the public by advanced AI models, echoing recent warnings by some of the industry’s most senior figures.
Sunak is hoping to secure agreement from governments, including the US, EU, Japan and Canada, on how countries can work together to test the safety of AI tools before they are released.
Sunak told reporters: “People developing this technology themselves have raised the risk that AI may pose and it’s important to not be alarmist about this. There’s debate about this topic. People in the industry themselves don’t agree and we can’t be certain.
His words echo those of the Elon Musk, with whom he is due to host a conversation on Thursday night, to be broadcast on the technology billionaire’s social media platform X.
Musk told reporters at the summit on Wednesday that AI was “one of the biggest threats to humanity”.
The prime minister arrived at Bletchley Park on Thursday morning for a second day of intense diplomatic activity at the international AI safety summit.
British officials were delighted to be able to issue a communique at the beginning of the summit, signed by 28 governments including the UK, US, EU and China. The so-called Bletchley declaration promised that the signatories would work together on shared safety standards in a process officials likened to the Cop summits on the climate crisis.
Sunak’s attempts to position the UK as the world leader in developing new AI rules were partly overshadowed on Wednesday by an announcement by the US commerce secretary, Gina Raimondo, of a new AI Safety Institute in Washington.
However, British officials say they expect to work closely with the new US institute and others to create a “network” of similar organisations that can do testing around the world. Officials say they are likely to reveal further details about how such a network will operate on Thursday.
Sunak will meet Kamala Harris, the US vice-president, at the summit on Thursday and will host discussions involving Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, and Georgia Meloni, the Italian prime minister. Leaders from other countries including Japan and Canada are expected to join remotely.
Sunak will then return to London for his conversation with Musk.
The prime minister defended his decision to host Musk and allow the conversation to be broadcast on one of his platforms. Speaking to the BBC on Wednesday he said: “Elon Musk has both been an investor and a developer of AI technologies himself. But for over a decade he has been also talking about the potential risks they pose and the need for countries and companies to work together to manage and mitigate against those risks.
ishi Sunak has hailed this week’s artificial intelligence summit as a diplomatic breakthrough after it produced an international declaration to address risks with the technology, as well as a multilateral agreement to test advanced AI Models.
Here are five things we have learned from the summit.
The prime minister spent diplomatic capital convening global leaders, tech executives, academics and civil society figures at Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes, the base for second world war codebreakers.
Those attending included the US vice-president, Kamala Harris, the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, award-winning computer scientists, executives at all the leading AI companies – and Elon Musk.
Even if Emmanuel Macron and Joe Biden were among the no-shows, the gathering had political and commercial heft.
Tino Cuéllar, the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said it was a “remarkable achievement” in diplomatic terms.
This was symbolised by the signing of an international declaration that recognised the need to address risks represented by AI development, backed by more than 25 countries and the EU. France will host the next full-blown AI safety summit in 2024 – guaranteeing that Sunak’s initiative will live on.
The declaration was followed on the second day by confirmation of United Nations support for an expert AI panel akin to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and agreement from major tech companies to collaborate with governments in testing their advanced AI models before and after they are released.
The White House made clear its power to set the AI agenda this week. Biden issued an executive order requiring tech firms to submit test results for powerful AI systems to the government before they are released to the public. Harris gave a speech about AI in London on day one of the summit and announced the establishment of an AI safety institute, echoing a similar announcement by Sunak last week. Ultimately, this was followed by a multi-nation announcement, by Sunak, of government testing of AI models.
The UK tech secretary, Michelle Donelan, said she was unfazed by the US initiatives, pointing to the fact the majority of cutting-edge AI companies, such as the ChatGPT developer OpenAI, are based in the US. That remark underlined the fact that the US has commercial, as well as political, strength in AI.
The world’s richest man attended the summit and brought glitz, as well as distraction, to the gathering. Sunak invited him to Downing Street for a streamed fireside chat and the Tesla CEO’s warning that AI was “one of the biggest threats to humanity” overshadowed more nuanced contributions.
Some guests viewed the attendance of Musk, whose nascent AI venture xAI is nowhere near the scale of the bigger players, as an example of Fomo (fear of missing out). But his presence brought extra attention to the summit.
The possibility that AI can wipe out humanity – a view held by less hyperbolic figures than Musk – remains a divisive one in the tech community. That difference of opinion was not healed by two days of debate in Buckinghamshire.
But if there is a consensus on risk among politicians, executives and thinkers, then it focuses on the immediate fear of a disinformation glut. There are concerns that elections in the US, India and the UK next year could be affected by malicious use of generative AI.
Nick Clegg, president of global affairs at Mark Zuckerberg’s Meta, said this week that existential fears were being overplayed but he was concerned about the immediate threat to democratic polls. “We have some things which we need to deal with now,” he said.
Every delegation at Bletchley was keen to claim preeminence in AI regulation, from European diplomats noting they had started the regulatory process four years ago to Americans talking up the power of their new AI safety institute.
While the EU is moving closer to passing its AI act, UK officials have made clear they do not think regulation is needed, or even possible at this stage given how fast the industry is moving.
But most agree on the importance of international summits such as this one, not least to help define the problem different countries are trying to tackle.
lmost exactly a year ago, Vox journalist Kelsey Piper was having a heart-to-heart with Sam Bankman-Fried. The “Crypto King” (people used to call him a lot of stupid things) had just declared bankruptcy, setting off a chain of events that last week ended in his conviction for multiple types of fraud. He has yet to be sentenced, but he faces a maximum term of 115 years, which is quite some override of the principle “avoid sending rich people to prison” laid down, I believe, by the founding fathers.
They were discussing the regulation of crypto, after Bankman-Fried’s pithy conclusion: “Fuck regulators.” But it could just as well describe the relationship between billionaires, in tech particularly, and philanthropy. They say they are doing good; they often claim generosity as their abiding or only motivation; they may even believe it – it’s just unfortunate that they’ve already anointed themselves the only person who truly understands what “good” means.
Bankman-Fried, a self-styled “effective altruist”, had a nerdy, ascetic self-fashioning – he once told a journalist that his ultimate goal was to give all his money away, following up, as if in proof of that proposition, that all the clothes he owned could fit into one rucksack. And he did make political donations, becoming the second-largest individual donor to Joe Biden’s campaign, after Mike Bloomberg, in the 2020 cycle, and reportedly toying with the idea of paying Donald Trump not to run again in 2024. Trump’s team allegedly put a price tag of $5bn on that.
“Toy” was the word: Bankman-Fried was treating democracy like a game whose players could be bought, sold, shut down, amped up, a final ballot delivered to voters that had been prescreened by a billionaire – but nobody worry, because he knew what “good” was. He also spent a lot of money on vanity projects (renaming the Miami Arena FTX, after his crypto platform), luxury (a $40m Bahamian mansion), parties that would attract celebrities … and while the courts are understandably preoccupied with the fact that this wasn’t his money to splurge in the first place, the rest of us should be worried even if it had been. This version of philanthropy, which allows no scrutiny or pluralism, which coexists with profligacy and self-enrichment, but that doesn’t matter, because Professor Big Wallet knows best, is worse than unhelpful. It rarely delivers what it claims, it sucks the life out of meaningful collective action, it provides a smokescreen for the propagation of untold social harm and it’s nauseating to watch.
The billionaire philanthropist doesn’t necessarily have to sign up to democracy – he might have his own, superior definition of what the common good looks like. Peter Thiel (co-founder of Paypal), for one, thinks freedom is more important. Whose freedom? Not your concern, earthworm. But even those who say they’re pro-democracy are sketchy: why, if Jeff Bezos loves democracy so much, does Amazon have more full-time lobbyists living in Washington DC than there are US senators? Elon Musk makes big claims about arresting the climate crisis, yet if you pay any serious attention to his focus, his real escape plan is to space. That is not going to work for all of us, even if it’s what we want, and I sure as hell don’t.
Whether it is the Sacklers, endowing art galleries while the family business simultaneously destroys the fabric of society with opioids, or Rishi Sunak, donating £100,000 to the private Winchester College while his local primary school can’t afford computers, the problem with high net worth individuals is that their interests and those of society are misaligned by definition. Cash is like power: it can’t be given, it has to be taken. Relax, I’m not talking about robbing them: I mean tax.
The former Daily Mail columnist Katie Hopkins and the far-right agitator Tommy Robinson have thanked Elon Musk for reinstating their accounts on X after being banned for “hateful conduct”.
Hopkins, who found fame as a candidate on BBC’s The Apprentice, was suspended permanently in 2020 on the platform, then known as Twitter.
Robinson, whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, was banned in 2018.
Both personally thanked Musk, the billionaire owner of X, in their first posts since rejoining the social media site. Musk has faced criticism for allowing disinformation to flood the platform under his tenure. A report published by the EU in the September found X to have the highest ratio of disinformation posts of all large social media platforms.
Hopkins, who used to have more than 1.1 million followers, was removed to “keep Twitter safe”, according to the company at the time.
She has faced public opprobrium in the past for comparing migrants to cockroaches and claiming that a photograph of a dead Syrian boy lying on a beach, which had prompted a wave of compassion across Europe, was staged.
Robinson, who has a string of criminal convictions, has in the past been accused of posting Islamophobic content on Twitter.
In 2018, the now Metropolitan police commissioner, Mark Rowley, said there was “no doubt” material posted online by Robinson, the former leader of far-right group the English Defence League (EDL) had contributed to the radicalisation of the Finsbury Park mosque attacker Darren Osborne.
“He had grown to hate Muslims largely due his consumption of large amounts of online far-right material including, as evidenced at court, statements from former EDL leader Tommy Robinson, Britain First and others,” Rowley said.
Hopkins’ first post on the platform since 2020 read: “Thank you @elonmusk. And thank you to all the Twitter family who have brought Tommy & I back to @X.
Good morning – and apologies as you might have already received yesterday’s newsletter due to a technical error, we are investigating the cause.
Here is today’s version.
It has long been a goal for Rishi Sunak to position the UK in a leadership position in the growing conversation around the regulation and governance of artificial intelligence. A government adviser told Politico that the PM sees AI as “one of his long-term legacy pieces”.
In that vein Sunak this week organised a two-day AI summit, a passion project involving 100 world leaders, tech bosses and academics. They converged on Bletchley Park – the birthplace of modern computing – to discuss the risks surrounding the newest and most cutting edge forms of AI and come up with solutions to rein in the power of big tech companies that develop these complex large language models.
Despite worries that the absence of high profile leaders including the French president, Emmanuel Macron, the US president, Joe Biden, and the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, could deflate the importance of the event, it began with an early diplomatic success. The US, UK, Australia, China and the EU were among 28 signatories to a declaration announcing the “potentially catastrophic risk” that artificial intelligence poses to humanity. Sunak also announced that the biggest tech companies will, for the first time, allow governments to vet their artificial intelligence tools, which he says will slow down the development of AI systems that can compete with humans.
The summit ended with what was billed as a fireside chat between Sunak and Elon Musk. The discussion has been described as something of a “love-fest” between the self-described tech geek PM and the billionaire tech giant.
For today’s newsletter I spoke to the Guardian’s global technology editor, Dan Milmo, about the implications of the summit and what might happen next. That’s right after the headlines.
Israel-Hamas war | The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, was due in Israel on Friday and was expected to call for localised pauses in fighting to allow aid into Gaza, as Israel’s military said it had surrounded Gaza City and was moving further into the centre and fighting in close quarters.
Storm Ciarán | The threat of flooding remains high in the south of England as the UK feels the after-effects of the devastating Storm Ciarán. Eighty flood warnings are in place with more than 220 flood alerts stretching up through the country, after the south coast and the Channel Islands were battered with heavy rain and gusts of up to 100mph on Thursday.
Coronavirus | Matt Hancock told officials that he – rather than the medical profession – “should ultimately decide who should live or die” if the NHS was overwhelmed during the pandemic, the Covid-19 inquiry has been told.
Health | Patients and their relatives will be able to request a second opinion from senior doctors around the clock when the “Martha’s rule” system starts in hospitals in England, the government’s patient safety commissioner has said.
Italy | Police in Italy are searching for a British national suspected of killing his partner, whose body was found with stab wounds at her home in the Abruzzo region.
In some ways the last two days have marked a real move forward in AI regulation. There is now an explicit consensus to take on an international shared responsibility. There are plans for further meetings in South Korea and France over the next year to continue the conversation surrounding risks posed by AI. However, critics have said that the focus on the more hypothetical aspects of existential threats as opposed to the more current, pressing problems – such as insurance companies using AI to determine your risk or AI’s potential to take people’s jobs – dilutes the impact of the summit.
Bringing the US and China together to sign this declaration is a diplomatic coup for Sunak as it is the first time that China has met with western governments to discuss the issue. The prime minister has batted away criticism for allowing China to join the summit – former prime minister Liz Truss wrote that she was “deeply disturbed” at the invitation and urged Sunak to rescind it. The government argued that China is a key player in the development of AI and that it should be at the table for the discussion to be truly global.
The US vice-president, Kamala Harris, stole some of Sunak’s thunder, as she arrived with a freshly minted White House executive order on AI that laid out actionable plans that the US government would be taking, including setting up its own institute that would police artificial intelligence. With all the noise and bluster of the summit, Sunak did not have plans with anywhere near as much detail to match. Though he insisted that he welcomed Harris’s intervention, it made it clear that the UK was not setting the agenda.
There is a sense now that “structures need to be put in place from individual countries to tackle AI”, Dan says, and Harris was signalling that the US has the blueprint for those plans.
Elon Musk is not necessarily at the forefront of the commercial side of AI but this was nonetheless a consequential meeting that gave the prime minister’s event a further level of importance.
Many did not know what to expect of the conversation: a world leader interviewing a tech billionaire one-on-one is not a regular occurrence. But once things got going it became clear quite quickly it was not going to be a difficult discussion. Instead, the pair traded compliments, with some commentators noting that it seemed like Sunak was angling for Musk’s approval. Kiran Stacey wrote in his analysis that the prime minister played “the role of eager chatshow host, keen to elicit drawled lessons on love, life and technology from the billionaire superstar sitting next to him”.
Before the summit Musk, co-founder of OpenAI, said that he would like a “third party referee”, a point that he reiterated in his 40-minute conversation with Sunak at Lancaster House. There was a chumminess throughout, with the prime minister piling on the praise, while Musk publicly backed some of Sunak’s decisions – like bringing in China.
Musk highlighted the potential benefits of AI, while simultaneously issuing stark warnings about “humanoid robots”, and predicted that there would be no jobs as AI would have taken them all. Despite some of his bleakest predictions, Musk also said that he believed AI to be a force for good.
What happens next?
There is momentum behind the idea that more regulation and much closer oversight is needed of artificial intelligence in all its forms: “Government oversight is certainly a lot stronger than it was last week because of this summit,” Dan says.
Sunak has also insisted that he wants to ensure that the safety issues are dealt with in a way that avoids hampering innovation in the tech sector. He stressed that AI has the capacity to make people’s lives much better, in healthcare, education and the economy but later added that it could also wreak havoc on the same level as a pandemic or nuclear war.
Sunak said last week that “only governments can properly assess the risks to national security [that AI poses]. And only nation states have the power and legitimacy to keep their people safe.” But he added that we should not rush to regulation without fully understanding the risks. It is no secret that the prime minister wants tech companies to invest and develop their products in the UK, with the hope of economic benefits. How he plans to balance the goals of regulation and innovation remains unclear.
Cricket | India bowled out Sri Lanka for 55 runs as their swashbuckling batting and brilliant seam bowling took them to a 302-run victory and secured a World Cup semi-final slot.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Football | Erik Ten Hag is under pressure to improve Manchester United’s fortunes after a run of eight defeats in the first 15 games of the season. While there is no desire to sack the embattled manager, there is an acceptance from the Old Trafford hierarchy that his position will become untenable if the side’s form does not improve.
Rugby | Wayne Barnes has announced his retirement after refereeing 111 Tests, making his last match the World Cup final between South Africa and New Zealand.
“Top tech firms to let governments vet AI tools, Sunak tells summit” – the Guardian leads with news from Bletchley Park. The Daily Telegraph’s takeaway is “Musk tells Sunak AI will end work” and the Times gets in on that with “AI means nobody will have to work, says Musk”. The i says “Mortgage pain: UK warned not to expect any interest rate cut before 2025”. Here’s more, in the Financial Times: “Interest rates held at 15-year hight as BoE warns of stagnating economy”. The Metro splashes on “The wrath of Ciarán” as “Britain battered by 100mph storm”. “Don’t ruin our nation’s day of remembrance” – the Daily Express says there are “fears” over a planned pro-Palestinian march. And the Daily Mirror calls Matt Hancock “The grin reaper” after the Covid inquiry heard he wanted the power of life and death during the pandemic.
For so many, divorce means conflict, animosity and, more importantly, uncomfortable situations for children stuck in the middle. Today’s Upside is bringing you a story debunking this as an inevitability.
Journalists and parenting experts Anna Whitehouse (aka Mother Pukka) and Matt Farquharson spoke with Zoe Williams about how they successfully co-parent after their decision to divorce after 17 years. The pair have implemented methods that benefit their two children, and have given tips to couples who find themselves in similar situations. The suggestions range from ensuring you put the children first to not being competitive and making sure family rituals remain intact.
Whitehouse says she doesn’t want to give “a rose tinted glamorisation” of divorce, and acknowledges the pain that comes with separating, but with these co-parenting gems there is certainly beauty in collaboration.
Bored at work?
And finally, the Guardian’s puzzles are here to keep you entertained throughout the day – with plenty more on the Guardian’s Puzzles app for iOS and Android. Until Monday.
Labour has accused Rishi Sunak of using his interview with Elon Musk to position himself for a job after Downing Street, after criticism that the prime minister allowed the billionaire to overshadow his AI safety summit.
Sunak rushed from Bletchley Park to central London after the summit to interview Musk on stage in an event that critics said made the prime minister look weak in the face of corporate power.
During the event, Musk predicted that AI would eventually take everybody’s jobs, that people faced a threat from “humanoid robots” and that one of the biggest upsides from the technology would be that people would be able to make AI friends. His comments have since dominated the news agenda, overtaking an agreement signed by the world’s biggest AI companies that could lead to a slowdown in the race to develop systems that can compete with humans.
Peter Kyle, the shadow technology secretary, said on Friday: “The AI summit was an opportunity for the UK to lead the global debate on how we regulate this powerful new technology for good. Instead, the prime minister has been left behind by the US and EU who are moving ahead with real safeguards on the technology.
At the event at Lancaster House, which was broadcast later on Musk’s social media platform X, Sunak quizzed the world’s richest man on a series of issues related to AI and technology more generally.
The prime minister paid Musk a number of compliments, calling him “a brilliant innovator and scientist”, failing to mention controversies such as Musk’s decision to deny Ukraine access to his Starlink satellites at a crucial point in its war against Russia.
At the end of the conversation, Sunak said it had been a “huge privilege” to host the Musk, patting him on the back as the pair left the stage.
Government officials said they were pleased that Musk had agreed to attend the summit and the event in central London afterwards, and that he had backed Sunak’s efforts to bring in new safety regulations for the industry. Some, however, admitted annoyance that Musk’s subsequent comments had garnered so much attention.
Elon Musk has unveiled Grok, an artificial intelligence chatbot with a “rebellious streak” inspired by The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
The Tesla CEO, who warned last week that AI was “one of the biggest threats to humanity”, said the competitor to ChatGPT would be made available to premium subscribers on his X platform after testing.
Musk also revealed that Grok had access to user posts on X, which he owns, and has a penchant for sarcastic responses.
Grok has real-time access to info via the 𝕏 platform, which is a massive advantage over other models.
Musk posted an apparent example of Grok’s playful tone with a screengrab of a query to the chatbot asking it for a “step by step” guide to making cocaine. The four steps outlined in the reply include “obtain a chemistry degree” and “set up a clandestine laboratory in a remote location”.
Musk said Grok, which is in early testing and not available to the general public, would ultimately be released to subscribers to X’s top-tier subscription service, Premium+.
Grok is a verb coined by American science fiction writer Robert A Heinlein and according to the Collins dictionary means to “understand thoroughly and intuitively”.
Grok has been built by Musk’s new AI company, xAI. Staff at xAI explained the chatbot’s debt to The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, the cult sci-fi comedy by British author Douglas Adams, in a blogpost on Saturday.
“Grok is an AI modeled after The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, so intended to answer almost anything and, far harder, even suggest what questions to ask!
The xAI team said Grok was powered by a large language model – the fundamental technology behind AI chatbots – called Grok-1.
The blogpost said Grok-1 had surpassed GPT-3.5, the model used in the freely available version of ChatGPT, on some benchmarks such as solving middle-school maths problems. However, xAI said it lagged behind the most powerful ChatGPT model, GPT-4.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
The xAI team said Grok was being made available to a limited number of users in the US as a prototype, adding that “new capabilities and features” would be rolled out in the coming months.According to the Grok website, initial access to the chatbot is being offered to X subscribers under an “early access program”.
Musk co-founded OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT, but stepped away from the company in 2018, saying he “didn’t agree with some of what OpenAI team wanted to do”, as well as citing commitments at his other companies. Musk has expressed fears about the pace of development at companies like OpenAI and in March he supported a call for a six-month pause in developing powerful systems.
However, in July Musk said a pause no longer seemed realistic and announced the formation of xAI, which he said would build AI systems “in a good way”.
Speaking at the AI safety summit at Bletchley Park last week, Musk said AI was a threat to humanity, echoing fears among some experts and tech executives that systems could emerge that evade human control and make decisions that imperil humanity.
“I mean, for the first time, we have a situation where there’s something that is going to be far smarter than the smartest human,” he said.