BEIJING -- "Peace and progress between China and the US is in the self-interest of each country and of the world," former US Secretary of State Dr. Henry A. Kissinger has said.
In stark contrast to the previous rhetoric of so-called "decoupling" or "de-risking" from China peddled by some US politicians, recent new trends continue the positive interaction between China and the United States that has been going on for some time.
Starting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken's Beijing trip in June, several senior US officials have visited China one after another, including Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. They have stressed the importance and willingness to stabilize China-US relations.
Last month, the two countries' economic working group and financial working group held their first meetings via video link.
Moreover, continuous people-to-people exchanges have injected a steady stream of positive energy into the healthy development of bilateral relations.
China has resumed group tours to the United States as direct flights increased; a special 50th anniversary concert was held in Beijing to celebrate the Philadelphia Orchestra's 1973 visit to China; Chinese artists performed the dance drama "Mulan" at the Kennedy Center in Washington; and more than 200 US exhibitors in various sectors have attended the sixth China International Import Expo, marking the largest US presence in the history of the expo.
"Going forward, we need to find a right way for China and the United States to get along in the new era," said Chinese Ambassador to the United States Xie Feng at the Gala Dinner 2023 of the National Committee on US-China Relations last month.
China and the United States are the world's two largest economies, representing one of the most important bilateral relations. Economic ties between the two countries are deeply intertwined. The two countries, and the world at large, cannot afford a miscalculation of each other's intentions and confrontation against each other.
"What worries me about the current period is that we are focusing too much on the rivalry and not enough on the cooperation," world-renowned US political scientist Joseph Nye, also a former dean of Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, said in July.
"We have to think of how do we reconcile both competition and cooperation at the same time. Because if we fail to do that, we're going to all suffer, not just the United States and China, but the world climate and the world economy," Nye said during a recent think tank forum in Beijing last month.
China's rise is an opportunity rather than a challenge to the United States. The two economies are far more complementary than competitive. The two countries should pursue win-win outcomes rather than a zero-sum game and make the pie of common interests even bigger.
"Despite the shouty rhetoric on both sides, the economic symbiosis remains strong, benefiting both US and Chinese consumers," said an opinion piece published in the Financial Times, adding "overall trade between the two countries hit a record high last year."
"The continuing centrality of China to the US tech sector has been highlighted this year by the long line of chief executives trooping through the country. Prominent among them have been Elon Musk of Tesla, Tim Cook of Apple, Pat Gelsinger of Intel and Cristiano Amon of Qualcomm," said the opinion piece.
An analysis by Nikkei Asia found that China still accounted for a significant share of these four US tech companies' revenues last year: 62 percent for Qualcomm, 27 percent for Intel, 22 percent for Tesla and 18 percent for Apple.
Such mutually beneficial cooperation has helped American families reduce their cost of living and American businesses reap huge profits.
"This intensification of Sino-American economic ties is driven by the decisions of millions of American consumers and thousands of American businesses in the marketplace," said an Asia Times editorial. "It points to a natural co-evolution of the American and Chinese economies that governments should foster rather than try to frustrate."
History has proved that close cooperation between China and the United States is of great significance not only to the two countries but to world peace and prosperity.
"Cooperation between the US and China will strengthen both countries and benefit the world," said Jeffrey Sachs, economics professor and director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University. "It is correct and indeed possible."
Amid geopolitical tensions, such as the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and fighting in the Gaza Strip, cooperation between the two countries is more urgently needed than ever before.
"The latest war in Gaza not only serves as a reminder to Americans that China is not a threat to America or world peace, but also offers an opportunity for Washington and Beijing to work together on common global challenges, including the conflict in the Middle East," said an opinion piece published in The Hill. "It's time to reboot America's China policy."
The achievements of China-US relations have not come easily and should be cherished. Both countries should take a responsible attitude, proceed from the well-being of the two peoples, and properly handle and develop bilateral relations to continue the precious legacy of friendship.
The world is big enough to accommodate the development and prosperity of both China and the United States. The two countries should look forward, proceed from the Xi-Biden Bali summit towards a San Francisco summit, and push for the steady and sound development of China-US relations in line with the three principles of mutual respect, peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation.
If the two sides can approach each other to embrace dialogue over confrontation and tear down walls instead of building them, it will not be a daunting task for the two countries to join hands for common development.
The 22 member nations of the European Space Agency, or ESA, have given their unanimous backing to the partial opening up of their cargo supply service to the International Space Station to the commercial sector, through a design competition.
At a meeting in the Spanish city of Seville, delegates backed a plan for the use of a robotic capsule, whose maiden voyage is scheduled to be in 2028, and whose design will be chosen through a competition, with the winner receiving some support and funding, but then having to sell back the service to the ESA.
The new way of operating would be similar to how NASA has begun to work in the United States, which opened the door for the involvement of Elon Musk's private SpaceX company.
"We will conceive (the capsule) in a way that it's not a dead end, meaning that it's open and can evolve in the future to a crew vehicle, if member states decide to do so," ESA Director-General Josef Aschbacher told reporters. "Eventually, it could also evolve (to go to) other destinations, possibly to the moon."
Last month, he told the European Parliament that "in the next decade you will be sure there will be first developments of houses, infrastructure (on the moon)".
A series of setbacks with the ESA's Vega-C lifting rocket, which endured a high-profile failure after its launch in December, losing two satellites in process, and delays to the Ariane 6 vehicle, which was first approved nine years ago, mean extra funding has been needed to put these issues right.
There is a feeling that future projects must avoid such problems, and the commercial input will lessen the burden on European taxpayers.
"All 22 member states of ESA have agreed that we have to change how we procure the launchers of the future," Aschbacher added.
Anna Christmann, a Green party politician from Germany who chaired the summit in Seville, said it was a significant change in ESA policy.
"Public money is needed to start these kinds of competitions, but then that attracts investors to put money in through private companies," she said. "When we compare space budgets, Europe is not so different from others on the public side. The bigger difference is on the private side of investment, and that's what we want to change."
Until now, Europe's role in space exploration has mainly been in terms of scientific and climate observation, with NASA or, until recently, Russia leading the way in terms of human exploration, but the Agence-France Presse news agency quoted an unnamed source as saying that the door was opening for more involvement in the world of crewed flights.
"If we want to carry out manned flights, this is the first step," said the source. "You have to be able to send a cargo ship to a station and come back. That is the first brick."
Talking with British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak at the end of the world's first AI Safety Summit held at Bletchley Park on Nov 1-2, US entrepreneur Elon Musk thanked him for inviting China, saying "If they're not participants, it's pointless."
The same view was expressed by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace President Mariano-Florentino Cuellar, who stressed that China's participation makes the summit a truly global dialogue. Many other experts also said China's presence at such meetings is essential.
Data from the World Intellectual Property Organization show Chinese institutions applied for as many as 29,863 AI-related patents last year, accounting for more than 40 percent of the world's total. As such, politicians, entrepreneurs and organization with even the basic knowledge of artificial intelligence cannot afford to keep China away from any global AI summit, let alone turn it into a biased discussion as some scatterbrained Western politicians tried to do before the Bletchley Park meeting.
More than through technological achievements, China has contributed to AI development with its governance philosophy, which is embodied in its people-centric Global Initiative for Artificial Intelligence Governance that was proposed in October.
The initiative calls on AI product and service providers to respect the recipient countries' sovereignty and jurisdiction, prevent the abuse of AI by extremist and/or terrorist groups, and requires all players, major ones in particular, to be cautious while developing AI in the military sector. All countries, irrespective of their size, development status and political system, enjoying the right to develop and use AI is an essential part of China's initiative. And its spirit is similar to the newly issued Bletchley Declaration that affirmed "the need for the safe development of AI and for the transformative opportunities of AI to be used for good and for all, in an inclusive manner in our countries and globally".
The fact that the first AI summit was held at Bletchley Park is of historical significance, for the place was a British government cryptological center during World War II where Alan Turing and other agents of the Ultra intelligence project decoded Germany's secret messages, most notably those that were encrypted with the German "Enigma" and "Tunny" cipher machines. Many experts say the code breakers at Bletchley Park, 80 kilometers northwest of London, by playing a big role in defeating the common enemy, may have shortened the war by as much as two years.
Now almost eight decades later, countries have to deal with the haunting threats of ethnic, religious and sectarian violence, rising white supremacists and marauding right-wing forces, which in some ways are fueled by AI. So it's time for experts to use one of the world's most advanced technologies, that is, AI, to defeat these common enemies again.
Attending a high-profile summit on artificial intelligence, or AI, in England, a Chinese official said China is willing to enhance communication on the safe use of AI, and promote the building of an open, fair, and effective international framework on AI governance.
Wu Zhaohui, vice-minister of science and technology, made the remarks at the first plenary session of the AI Safety Summit, which was held by the United Kingdom government at Bletchley Park, the birthplace of the world's first programmable digital electronic computer.
Delegates from dozens of nations, AI related companies, and organizations all attended the two-day event.
Wu introduced to the audience the global initiative on AI governance proposed by China during the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, in Beijing in October.
He stressed that all parties should uphold a people-centered approach in developing AI for good, and strengthen the risk management of the emerging technology based on the principle of respect and mutual benefit.
In order to close the digital gap in technology development, the representation of developing countries should be encouraged, and the Global South should have more say in the governance of AI, Wu added.
A statement on the risks around artificial intelligence had been agreed ahead of the opening of the summit, where the Bletchley Declaration on AI safety was signed by representatives from 27 countries and the European Union — every nation present at the summit, according to the UK department for science, innovation, and technology.
A raft of funding was announced by the UK government ahead of the gathering, which included a 118-million-pound ($143-million) program to ensure the UK workforce is braced for a world that will be increasingly dominated by AI.
The spending will be used for skills training to make sure workers are "future-proofed".
Michelle Donelan, the UK's secretary of state for science, innovation, and technology, said: "The UK is at the very forefront of the global race to turn AI's enormous potential into a giant leap forward for people's quality of life and productivity at work, all while ensuring this technology works safely, ethically, and responsibly."
She said the government will update the nation's skills base, "meaning British people can reap the benefits of AI as it continues to develop".
"At the same time, we are moving further and faster to put the power of this technology to work for good across government and society," she added.
Donelan said the investment will guarantee the UK "has the top global expertise, and fosters the next generation of researchers needed to seize the transformational benefits of this technology".
The announcement included the naming of 12 centers for doctoral training in AI, which will be developed with 117 million pounds of funding that had already been announced.
The UK will also update its visa program, to make sure AI experts from around the world can move to the country to continue their work.
The announcement followed an earlier statement that the UK will invest 8.1 million pounds on creating postgraduate course scholarships in AI and data science.
In addition to government officials, many notable figures from the field of AI attended the summit, including Elon Musk, CEO of X, formerly Twitter, and Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, the company behind the AlphaGo AI program.
Appearing on a podcast run by comedian Joe Rogan on Tuesday, Musk said AI could, if programmed by environmentalists, decide humans are a problem in need of eradication.
"If you start thinking that humans are bad, then the natural conclusion is humans should die out," he said. "If AI gets programmed by the extinctionists, its utility function will be the extinction of humanity … they won't even think it's bad."
WeRide, a global autonomous driving company headquartered in Guangzhou, Guangdong province in South China, created a splash when the United Arab Emirates awarded it the country's first national license for self-driving vehicles. This was the first such license globally, giving WeRide a place in history.
With the move, WeRide, which mainly offers level-4 autonomous driving solutions, is able to conduct various road tests of autonomous vehicles on open roads across the Middle Eastern country. Level-4 autonomy means the car can drive by itself in most conditions without a human backup driver.
Backing the achievement is the latest momentum gained by Chinese autonomous driving companies in terms of self-driving technologies and commercialization. These companies are increasingly recognized by enterprises and governments globally for their overall capacity to make self-driving on roads a reality.
"From a global perspective, Chinese autonomous driving companies have demonstrated strong technological innovation capabilities and can cope with various driving scenarios in different climates, environments and urban roads," said Regan Luo, director of business development for WeRide's Middle East and North Africa markets.
In the UAE, for instance, the high temperatures easily lead to the failure of electronic components of self-driving cars. In response to this constraint, WeRide quickly developed a thermal management system, which can effectively perform heat recovery and cold emission management, Luo said.
According to Luo, WeRide is one of the first global autonomous driving firms to launch robotaxis in Abu Dhabi, capital of the UAE, and has already served nearly 20,000 robotaxi orders for its residents.
For years, carmakers around the world, especially in the United States and Europe, have promised a world of self-driving vehicles — it increasingly appears that China will likely make it happen.
According to a report from global management consulting firm McKinsey & Co, China will become the world's largest market for autonomous vehicles, with revenue from such vehicles and mobility services expected to exceed $500 billion by 2030.
It is predicted that by 2030, total sales of autonomous vehicles are expected to hit $230 billion and autonomous vehicle-based services will generate around $260 billion in sales.
More than 15,000 kilometers of testing roads for intelligent connected vehicles, most being self-driving cars, have been opened nationwide by mid-September, with a total road testing mileage of over 70 million km, latest data from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology showed.
As of mid-September, 17 demonstration zones, 16 pilot cities and seven national car networking demonstration zones had completed the intelligent upgrading and transformation of over 7,000 km of roads nationwide.
Guo Shougang, deputy head of the equipment industry department at the MIIT, said: "China's intelligent connected vehicles have achieved positive results in terms of industrial scale, key technologies and demonstration applications.
"In particular, a batch of key technologies, including the new generation of electronic and electrical architecture, car operating systems and high-power computing chips, has been applied on a large scale in vehicles."
In the first half of this year, the sales of new passenger cars with autonomous driving functions accounted for 42.4 percent of the nation's total passenger car sales, which represents an increase of 10 percentage points year-on-year, he added.
Industry experts said that such huge strides in recent years are part of China's broader efforts in prioritizing autonomous-driving technology and commercialization, making policies for internet-connected vehicles increasingly transparent and open.
Last November, the MIIT and the Ministry of Public Security launched a guideline saying that road tests for autonomous driving vehicles will be gradually carried out nationwide.
In July, the Office of the Beijing High-Level Autonomous Driving Demonstration Zone announced the launch of the commercial operation of autonomous vehicles. It is expected that a larger fleet of driverless taxis will soon become available in Beijing.
According to a report by BloombergNEF, China will operate the world's largest robotaxi fleet with about 12 million units by 2040, followed by the US, which is expected to have around 7 million autonomous vehicles by that time.
Another report by global consultancy IHS Markit said that China's self-driving taxi market alone is expected to reach 1.3 trillion yuan ($178 billion) by 2030, accounting for 60 percent of the country's ridehailing market.
Jia Yuanhua, a professor of transportation engineering at the school of traffic and transportation at Beijing Jiaotong University, said the autonomous driving industry is nearing a "golden inflection point of growth", as central and local government policies become more open and clear.
Bolstered by such a blueprint for connected and intelligent cars, companies like Pony.ai and Baidu have been operating robotaxis in designated areas in Beijing and Shanghai after clearing high regulatory hurdles.
Other AI firms are also striving to improve autonomous driving technologies, including high-definition maps, smart cockpits and V2X, or vehicle-to-everything networks, which rely on sensors, cameras and the internet to keep drivers informed about road conditions, to gain a foothold in international competition.
For some time now, they have been gearing up driverless technologies in minibuses, trucks, forklifts and aerial vehicles, which are expected to enjoy huge commercial value in a variety of businesses like industrial logistics, express delivery, food takeaway, fresh produce ordering and retail pharmaceuticals.
"China has been at the forefront of optimizing traffic and road safety. What is likely to follow once the technology is adopted is a rollout in more crowded cities where traffic congestion has been a deep pain point," said Howard Yu, director of the IMD Center for Future Readiness.
In March, the IMD's 2023 Future Readiness Indicator ranked the world's top revenue-generating players in finance, automotive and consumer packaged goods, in terms of their ability to anticipate future challenges as well as limit risk exposure.
One key finding was the rise of Chinese players in the autonomous driving industries, Yu told Xinhua when the report was released. For the first time, BYD, Li Auto and XPeng from China all made into the top 10 rankings of the global indicator.
During his speech in July in Shanghai, Tesla founder and CEO Elon Musk said that he admires the Chinese people's wisdom and determination and as long as the Chinese people decide to do well in one thing, they will, including in artificial intelligence.
There are reports that Tesla, a global leader in autonomous driving, could be getting ready to test its full self-driving technology in China. The company is forming a 20-member operation team to promote and deploy its proprietary full self-driving technology in the country and has already dispatched engineers from its headquarters for training.
As ChatGPT takes the tech world by storm, the ongoing AI boom is also likely to lift China's autonomous driving development to another level above its international competitors, industry experts said.
Earlier this year, Haomo Zhixing Technology Co, which is backed by domestic automaker Great Wall Motor Co, launched DriveGPT, a generative model that marks the first of its kind in the global autonomous driving sector.
The startup developed what it called RLHF, or reinforced learning with human feedback, technology, which is like ChatGPT and enables working with real-time data and drivers' decisions to improve safety and help vehicles act in a more human-like way.
Haomo's CEO Gu Weihao said that the large model has been trained with the data of over 40 million km of driving and will enable cars to run more safely and act in a human-like and smoother way.
He said that the company is set to commercialize the technology and its driver-assisted products will be sold in vehicles in Europe, Israel and other parts of the world.
However, He Xiongsong, executive president of Estar Capital, pointed out that costs are still a challenge for the country's autonomous driving technologies and it will take time for the country's unmanned vehicle industry chain to grow and reduce costs.
At present, some auto manufacturers can achieve a total vehicle cost of about 200,000 yuan to 250,000 yuan, but most unmanned cars cost at least 500,000 yuan each, he added.
Editor's note: As the US takes multiple measures to contain China's development, the relations between the two countries have reached a low point, prompting observers to call for a reset in their ties, and the need for Washington's active cooperation in science and technology.
Thirty-five years ago, Ben Zhang from eastern China's Jiangsu province went to the United States for education and has since made it his home, founded an import company and become a naturalized US citizen. But he never forgot his roots, fervently hoping the two countries build an enduring friendship and cooperation.
Zhang, founder of Greater Pacific Industries, headquartered in Seattle, Washington state, a supplier to the advertising industry, said the current relationship between China and the US is "not healthy".
"Current Sino-US relations experience a lot of tension and back-and-forth political maneuvering that make day-to-day business tough," Zhang said. "Although I am a US citizen and our company is an American company, our 28-year history is rooted in China where we have many long-term partnerships with great vendors. My hope is for the restoration of normal economic, trade, and diplomatic relations between the two countries."
In the past few years, the Sino-US relationship has reached its lowest point since the establishment of diplomatic ties, as the US has taken measures in multiple fields to contain China's development, such as unilaterally initiating "trade wars" and promoting decoupling from China, said He Yun, an associate professor in the School of Public Administration at Hunan University in Changsha.
These moves not only slowed down the economic and social development on both sides but also disrupted the normal pace of the world economy, she said.
Zhang said that economic competition is generally good for prices and innovation, but it has to be healthy competition, otherwise, it will not only harm the two countries' economies but also the neighboring countries' economies. For instance, the Donald Trump administration imposed tariffs on many Chinese-made goods back in 2018, essentially creating "a trade war".
"Politically this was done to challenge China, but it benefits no one, as US consumers ultimately pay the cost of the tariffs. Additionally, the tariffs act like a tax on the world economy, pushing up inflation and higher consumer products prices worldwide," he said.
Zhang said his company used to import all the advertising promotional products and consumer products from thousands of suppliers throughout China, but after the US imposed tariffs on Chinese goods, he had to purchase about 30 percent from countries outside China, such as Vietnam and Cambodia.
"Last year we had some hope the new administration would roll back some or all of these tariffs, but this still has not happened and seems not happening anytime soon, which is very disappointing," he said.
"These factors all pose challenges for our business model," said Zhang. "We are more familiar with Chinese culture, markets, ports, and infrastructure. In addition, the China market offers huge potential for foreign companies. The buying power of China's middle class is massive. There is so much potential to grow our business with China and expand partnerships there. This is much more attractive than more risky sources outside China."
Since the beginning of this year, a series of visits by high-ranking US officials were expected to bring hope for the recovery of bilateral relations, including those of US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, and US Presidential Special Climate Envoy John Kerry.
During the recent visit of US Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo to China, both countries took significant steps toward improving their bilateral relations. They announced the establishment of new communication channels, a working group to address trade disputes, and an exchange of export control information to enhance transparency.
China's central bank said on Friday that China and the US will establish two working groups — the Economic Working Group and the Financial Working Group — to strengthen communication on economic and financial matters.
While attending a conference in the United States recently, I overheard an American expert discussing the space competition between China and the US. After the event, I approached the expert to inquire about the possibility of space cooperation between the two countries. His answer is a matter of concern. He explained that as long as the US Congress doesn't withdraw the ban it announced in 2011, official space collaboration between China and the US is unlikely.
The escalating competition between China and the US in cislunar space risks spiraling out of control. And all signs suggest their space rivalry may extend to Mars in the next two to three decades, possibly leading to even more negative consequences.
To avoid such a future, the two sides should explore possibilities for cooperation. But for that, the US Congress needs to abandon its zero-sum thinking, paving the way for the early lifting of the ban on space cooperation and, thereby, raising hopes for Sino-US collaboration in space.
SpaceX's Starlink satellites, which comprise the majority of satellites in orbit, have made space exploration more affordable and efficient for a number of countries. But without proper management, the growing number of satellites in low Earth orbit could trigger the Kessler Syndrome.
The Kessler Syndrome, the brainchild of National Aeronautical and Space Administration scientist Donald J. Kessler in 1978, is a phenomenon in which, after the amount of junk (including defunct satellites) in orbit around Earth reach a certain threshold, collisions between objects become inevitable. These collisions will produce more debris, leading to a cascading effect and more collisions, and overwhelming the Earth's orbit with space debris, causing immense problems for satellites, astronauts and space mission planners, even preventing further satellite launches.
This interruption in space exploration would have a devastating impact on industries reliant on satellites for weather, navigation, communication, rendering them unsustainable.
The massive number of Starlink satellites (both operational and defunct) has raised concerns due to multiple instances of potential collision with spacecraft, including near misses with Chinese satellites. On Dec 3, 2021, the Chinese delegation to the United Nations and other international organizations in Vienna sent a note to the UN Secretary-General, saying that on July 1 and Oct 21, 2021, China's space station had to perform emergency maneuvers to avoid close encounters with Starlink satellites 1095 and 2305, respectively, to prevent accidents. While space exploration companies have attributed these incidents to technical malfunctioning, this explanation is less than convincing.
Even if we were to accept the claim of technical malfunctioning, the sheer number (more than 40,000) of planned Starlink satellites, even with a 1 percent failure rate, would generate a substantial amount of debris in low Earth orbit, leading to more incidents like the 2021"near misses". If this is left unchecked, the Kessler Syndrome will become reality with dangerous consequences.
To prevent this scenario, China and the US should engage in space cooperation. However, such efforts still face resistance from the US Congress. Even when the Barack Obama administration tried to establish space cooperation with China, the Congress dashed any such hopes by passing the "Wolf Amendment," in 2011.
The amendment, proposed by Republican Congressman Frank Wolf and included in the 2011 Appropriations Act, prohibits NASA and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy from engaging in joint research with China. It also bars all NASA facilities from hosting "official Chinese visitors". As a result, measures were taken to restrict Sino-US space collaboration, preventing Chinese scientists from participating in international space conferences held in the US, and severely limiting communication and exchanges on space exploration between the two sides.
In fact, the US has declared that outer space is not a "global commons" and established a Space Force. These actions contradict the spirit of the 1967 Outer Space Treaty, which advocates the peaceful use of outer space. US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin recently acknowledged that space has become a theater for major power competition, with China being the US' "greatest space threat". The US Congress further reinforced this competitive stance in space against China by increasing appropriations for NASA in the CHIPS and Science Act.
But collisions in low Earth orbit are just one aspect of the Sino-US space competition. Other issues include concerns over equipping traditional satellites with nuclear materials, direct-ascent anti-satellite weapon tests, and space debris from spacecraft re-entries. Each of these problems is highly complex, and without China and the US reaching a consensus on these issues, they could potentially trigger a new crisis in bilateral relations.
With China's space station already in operation, the next phase of China's manned space program is likely to be aimed at exploring the moon, conducting research on and about the moon, and eventually landing astronauts on Mars, following a new "three-step" plan.
Despite setbacks in SpaceX's Starship launches, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk remains determined to land astronauts on Mars before 2050. Therefore, the likelihood of Chinese and US astronauts meeting on Mars is a possibility. If both countries can reach an agreement before this happens, and engage in peaceful cooperation to develop and use (if possible) Martian resources for the benefit of all humanity, it would be a rare piece of good news for the peoples in the two countries as well as those in the rest of the world.
The US Congress should abandon its Cold War mentality and zero-sum games, lift all sanctions, and refrain from committing further mistakes by putting its self-interest above common good. Although neither the US expert nor this author is overly optimistic about Sino-US space cooperation, the facts remain that there are only eight planets in the solar system, and Earth is the only place we can call home. Hence, it would be best if the competition between China and the US stops at Mars.
The author is an assistant research fellow at the Department for American Studies, China Institute of International Studies. The views don't necessarily reflect those of China Daily.
If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinion@chinadaily.com.cn or comment@chinadaily.com.cn.
The potential threats posed by artificial intelligence are undoubtedly real.
The launch of ChatGPT has led to much reflection as it showed how rapidly the technology was developing. Its launch last November sparked fierce competition among tech giants to unveil similar tools. This has prompted much debate on the ethical and societal consequences of allowing the unbridled development of AI technology. Leaving aside the question of whether it poses an existential threat to humanity, there are also pertinent concerns about impersonation, while the fact that AI technologies can collect and analyze large amounts of personal data also raises issues related to data privacy and security. Moreover, there are fears that those with malign intent will be able to use the power of AI to develop more advanced cyberattacks.
Given the potential threats that artificial intelligence could pose to our society, it is of utmost importance to regulate the industry to ensure AI technology is employed for safe and beneficial purposes and is not used for destructive ends.
The latest voluntary commitments governing AI development that eight US high-tech companies, including Nvidia, IBM and Adobe, signed with the Joe Biden administration on Tuesday are a major step in that direction. Based on the AI safety accord, the companies agreed to conduct internal and external testing of AI systems before their public release, set up protocols to ensure users know when content is AI-generated, and share information with governments and civil society, among others, to safeguard against risks.
The commitments are similar to the earlier ones signed by seven US high-tech giants including Meta, Google and OpenAI in July as part of Washington's efforts to tackle the challenges this powerful technology is likely to bring to humanity. "We must be clear-eyed and vigilant about the threats emerging technologies can pose," Biden said.
The task of dealing with the AI-associated risks is enormous, thus prompting some countries to call for the creation of a new United Nations body to support the global efforts to govern AI. In response, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres recently said the UN is "the ideal place" for drawing up and overseeing the implementation of global standards for AI governance.
China, which Tesla CEO Elon Musk believes is "in a strong position" when it comes to AI development, is also among the first countries in the world to have worked out policies on AI regulation. The country has always supported governance of the technology in collaboration with the international community to ensure that it is safe, and has called for the formation of an international governance framework and standardized norms with a consensus among nations.
It would serve the interests of both countries as well as the rest of the world if China and the US, as major powers in terms of AI development and applications, can set aside their differences and work together to enhance cooperation on AI regulation.
ATLANTA — Glowering at the camera with a defiant stare, Donald Trump's mug shot is a true classic of the genre.
The former president of the United States was arrested at a Georgia jail on Thursday for racketeering and conspiracy charges, and released on a $200,000 bond after having a historic mug shot taken.
Wearing his usual red tie and business suit, he was photographed under harsh lighting against a dull gray background with a watermark of the local sheriff's badge.
Trump had avoided the indignity of a mug shot during his three previous arrests this year. But this time, officials in Georgia insisted that standard procedure must be followed.
Thursday's picture could be the most famous booking photo in history — it is a first for a former US president — and it immediately became a defining image for both his supporters and critics.
Mug shots often mark a moment of public humiliation, but Trump embraced the image, reposting it on his social media platform Truth Social with the caption "Election Interference" and a link to his campaign website.
Trump was given the inmate number "PO1135809" by the Fulton County Jail, which listed his height as 6 feet 3 inches (1.9 meters), his weight as 215 pounds (97 kilograms) and his hair color as "Blond or Strawberry".
A short while later, he also posted it on X — formerly Twitter, which was Trump's favorite bullhorn until he was banned from it after the Jan 6, 2021, insurrection at the US Capitol by a mob of his supporters.
New owner Elon Musk reinstated Trump on X in November, but Trump stayed away and posted instead on Truth Social. This was Trump's first post since 2021.
Before boarding his plane back home, Trump told reporters that he did nothing wrong.
"We did nothing wrong at all. And we have every right, every single right to challenge an election that we think is dishonest," he said.
He repeated his previous claims that the 2020 presidential election was "rigged" and "stolen".
Trump's arrest came one day after he spurned a televised debate in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, featuring eight of his rivals for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination — all of whom lag well behind him in the polls.
He still stole the spotlight though, with six candidates saying they would support him as the party's nominee even if he were a convicted felon.
In a guiding document on further optimizing the foreign direct investment environment, the State Council, China's Cabinet, has called for better coordination of both domestic and international perspectives, aimed at creating a market-oriented, law-based, and internationalized first-class business environment.
Attracting FDI is an important aspect of advancing high-level opening-up and building an open economy. FDI plays a significant role in promoting China's industrial upgrading, increasing tax revenue and facilitating employment.
However, in recent years, with the global economic growth slowing down, the rise of trade protectionism, and the tense geopolitical situation, uncertainties have increased for investors. A report from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development showed that global FDI decreased by 12 percent last year compared with the previous. China's actual use of FDI in the first half of this year amounted to 703.65 billion yuan ($96.87 billion), a 2.7 percent year-on-year decrease, the first decline in three years.
The decrease might be marginal compared with other nations, but it's the reason the document was issued. With 24 specific policy measures, the document underscores the continuous strengthening of protection for FDI, as well as the enhancement of the ease of investment and operation.
FDI reflects medium- to long-term investment intentions, with investors giving great importance to a country's long-term economic prospects and foundational advantages. The fundamental aspects of China's economy, characterized by resilience, potential and a positive long-term trajectory, remain unchanged. Its open market provides ample opportunities for businesses from various countries to grow.
In recent days, top executives from multinational corporations such as Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, Tesla CEO Elon Musk, ARM CEO Hermann Hauser, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, Apple CEO Tim Cook and Qualcomm president Cristiano Amon have visited China, indicating their "trust" in China's business environment and "confidence" in its development prospects.
From the promulgation of a foreign investment law in 2020 to the official implementation of a revised industry catalog for foreign investment on Jan 1, and the protection of foreign investment, China has consistently provided a stable expectation for foreign investment amid the uncertainties of the global economy.
Foreign investment from around the world into China deepens the connection between China and the global economy. China's commitment to high-level opening up and its greater efforts to attract and utilize foreign investment also inject strong impetus into the recovery and prosperity of the world economy.