Jewish community leaders and celebrities are scheduled to speak at the event, which comes amid heightened tension around the world over the ongoing Israel-Hamas war and an unprecedented surge in antisemitic incidents in the US.
“The March for Israel will be an opportunity for all Americans to come together in solidarity with the people of Israel, to demonstrate our commitment to America’s most important ally in the Middle East, to condemn the rising trend of antisemitic violence and harassment, and to demand that every hostage be immediately and safely released,” organizers said in a statement.
The Department of Homeland Security has determined the event will require “extensive federal interagency support,” according to law enforcement sources.
The agency has deemed the march a “Level 1” security event, the highest in its ranking system, which takes into account national importance, potential threats and the level of resources required to ensure public safety, the sources said.
There are no credible threats or counter demonstrations identified for the Tuesday’s march, according to a US Capitol Police intelligence assessment obtained by CNN.
The Level 1 designation allows the federal government to fill possible gaps in local security, including explosive detection, cyber risk assessments and venue screening.
DC Mayor Muriel Bowser said the National Guard will be on site to assist local police.
The march will take place from 1 to 3 p.m., with gates opening at 10 a.m. Organizers include the Jewish Federations of North America and the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.
American support for Israel is critical, said Eric D. Fingerhut, president and CEO of the Jewish Federations of North America.
“On October 7th, merciless Hamas terrorists launched the deadliest attack on Israel in its 75-year history, brutally murdering the most Jewish people in a single day since the Holocaust,” Fingerhut said in a written statement.
Hamas launched a coordinated attack on Israel from Gaza on October 7, killing an estimated 1,200 people, including children, and kidnapping about 200 hostages. The massacre in Israel coincided with rising reports of antisemitism in the US and other countries.
Israel retaliated by launching airstrikes on Gaza targeting Hamas, which often uses civilians as human shields. But the bombardment has also killed Palestinian civilians.
More than 11,000 people have been killed, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health in Ramallah, drawing from sources in Hamas-controlled Gaza. A UNICEF spokesperson says the organization’s figures have historically matched those of the of the Hamas-controlled health ministry.
Tuesday’s march comes as other protests have denounced Israel’s airstrikes in Gaza, which have destroyed homes and schools and severed access to life-saving care. Some Jewish activists are among those calling for a ceasefire to prevent more civilian deaths.
Just blocks away from the site of Tuesday’s march, throngs of demonstrators recently gathered at Freedom Plaza in Washington to support Palestinian civilians and demand a ceasefire. Pro-Palestinian demonstrators have been arrested at similar events near the Capitol.
While many have called for a humanitarian pause in the fighting, so that Palestinian civilians can be moved to safety, Israel has firmly rejected it, as long as Hamas continues to hold hostages. But Israel has agreed to four-hour, daily pauses in military operations in Gaza to allow for evacuations.
CNN’s Holmes Lybrand and Josh Campbell contributed to this report.
When President Joe Biden meets Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday for a rare, high-stakes summit, two major wars – the Ukraine-Russia conflict, now deep into its second year, and the Israel-Hamas war that has entered its second deadly month – will serve as the backdrop amid extraordinary global tumult.
Members of the American and Chinese delegations plan to discuss both conflicts in their intensive, multi-hour meetings in the San Francisco Bay Area, according to senior administration officials, and Biden and his national security advisers will seek to convince their Chinese counterparts it is in Beijing’s interests to use its leverage with Russia and Iran to keep both wars contained.
The global unrest ratchets up the stakes of Biden’s sit-down with Xi, their first face-to-face meeting in a year. As Biden confronts two presidency-defining conflicts in Ukraine and Israel, he is eager to improve ties with Beijing and prevent another crisis from exploding on his watch. The US has sought to manage expectations for the talks, pointing to the restoration of military communication and an agreement to curb narcotics trafficking as top objectives.
He said that included “corresponding, being able to pick up the phone and talk to one another if there’s a crisis, being able to make sure that our militaries still have contact with one another.” American officials have been working to restore military communications with China after Beijing severed them last year.
Among US concerns is the risk for miscalculation or miscommunication that leads to conflict, including in the tense waters around Taiwan and the South China Sea.
He cited China’s relative economic weakness and said he was looking to cement a relationship that benefits both countries.
Even as he applies pressure on Xi, Biden’s own ability to shape the wars in the Middle East and Europe is being tested, as Israel continues its assault on Gaza’s civilian infrastructure and as Ukraine struggles to regain territory following Russia’s invasion 20 months ago. His staunch support and billions of dollars in military assistance from the United States haven’t necessarily led to outcomes US officials had hoped for.
In California, the president plans to personally press Xi to use China’s rare alliance with Iran to help deliver what has been an unanimous warning from western world: Don’t add fuel to the fire.
“The president will underscore our desire for China to make clear in its burgeoning relationship … with Iran that it is essential that Iran not seek to escalate or spread violence in the Middle East,” a senior administration official said.
Echoing what Biden and his top officials have said repeatedly in recent weeks, the president plans to also make clear to Xi that “if Iran undertakes provocative actions anywhere that the United States is prepared to respond and respond promptly,” the official added.
China’s influence has grown in Iran as the two countries have found common cause in mutual antipathy toward the United States. China purchases large amounts of Iranian oil and has made investments in the country, deepening a strategic partnership whose animating feature is opposition to American interests.
A senior Chinese diplomat visited Iran over the weekend, and reiterated Beijing’s calls for an end to the fighting and condemnation of civilian deaths.
When Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi visited Washington last month in preparation for this week’s Biden-Xi meeting, senior US officials raised the Middle East issue, pressing China to adopt a “constructive” approach to the conflict.
For Biden and his aides preparing for Wednesday’s meeting with Xi, their chief objective won’t necessarily be to convince China to support Israel’s efforts, but to convince Iran not to escalate any further.
“President Biden will make the point to President Xi that Iran acting in an escalatory, destabilizing way that undermines stability across the broader Middle East is not in the interests” of China or “any other responsible country,” US national security adviser Jake Sullivan said Monday at the White House.
How successful Biden is on that front won’t be known at the summit’s conclusion. And American officials have acknowledged that it is unlikely China will stop purchasing sanctioned Iranian oil – much like it continues to purchase energy from Russia, despite the raft of western sanctions applied at the start of the Ukraine war.
Still, US officials believe there might be a limited role Beijing can play in the Ukraine war, notwithstanding China’s deep economic alliance with Russia.
China has said it remains “impartial” in the Ukraine conflict and has suggested it could play a peacemaking role, an offer Washington has been skeptical of.
The Biden administration has grown increasingly concerned about the strengthening of ties between North Korea and Russia, particularly as the hermit nation has appeared eager to provide Russia with military supplies.
A high-profile group of former Biden and Obama administration and campaign officials sent a message of support to President Joe Biden for his backing of Israel in the wake of the October 7 attacks by Hamas as he faces division within his own party on the matter.
The letter, signed by more than 115 former officials and shared first with CNN, comes as some fissures emerge among Democrats and the Biden administration as Israel mounts a ground offensive against Hamas in Gaza, threatening party unity heading into the 2024 presidential election cycle. It also offers an on-the-record statement of support amid a spate of other protest letters from Biden administration officials, many of which were sent anonymously for fear of retribution.
Those letters of dissent include a letter reviewed by The New York Times on Tuesday signed by more than 400 political appointees and staff members representing 40 government agencies, which protested Biden’s support for Israel.
The pro-Israel group expressed “deep appreciation” to Biden in their letter.
“As former Biden and Obama administration officials and campaign staff, we are writing to express our deep appreciation for your moral clarity, courageous leadership, and staunch support of Israel, one of our nation’s strongest allies, in the aftermath of the worst massacre of Jewish people in a single day since the Holocaust,” the letter said.
The letter was signed by a range of former Biden and Obama officials and campaign staff, including former Biden chief of staff Ron Klain, former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Colin Kahl, former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, three members of Congress, 18 former ambassadors and others.
In Congress, the issue has inflamed underlying tensions within the House Democratic Caucus, a debate that has fallen along ideological, generational and even racial lines. Democratic leaders have been eager to keep a lid on the tensions and have intervened directly, spilling into public view as 22 Democrats joined Republicans last week to censure Michigan Democratic Rep. Rashida Tlaib, a Palestinian American, over her use of a phrase many see as a call for the destruction of the Jewish state.
That division reflects deepening divides among Democratic voters on Biden’s handling of the situation. Polling from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research last week found that 46% of Democrats disapprove of how Biden has navigated the conflict, compared to 50% of Democrats who approve.
Secretary of State Antony Blinken acknowledged disagreements within the State Department over the Biden administration’s approach to Israel-Hamas war in an email to staff Monday.
“Some people in the Department may disagree with approaches we are taking or have views on what we can do better,” Blinken said in the email, adding that forums have been organized so that employees can provide feedback.
The pro-Israel group also offered a message to those who have different views: “To those blaming Israel alone for this violence or excusing the atrocities including rape and beheading as ‘resistance,’ we want to be very clear: there is no moral equivalence between Israel and Hamas, a designated terrorist organization responsible for mass atrocities,” it said.
CNN’s Jennifer Hansler, Annie Grayer, Melanie Zanona, and Manu Raju contributed to this report.
The Israeli military’s focus on hospitals in Gaza is growing more intense as it campaign to eliminate Hamas from the enclave enters a sixth week.
The IDF invited news media to visit a medical center for children on Monday, where a spokesperson alleged parts of the basement had been a Hamas “command and control center” and may have been used to hold hostages.
He also pointed to a chair with a rope next to it and a piece of women’s clothing, which he said would be tested for DNA, and a makeshift toilet.
Israel has repeatedly claimed that Hamas locates its operational bases in tunnels under hospitals and other civilian infrastructure. The access provided by the IDF provided Monday was an effort to back up those assertions, which are denied by Hamas, as well as health officials and hospitals in Gaza.
Concerns are mounting that hospitals are now being targeted for military action. Searing images and accounts from civilians inside continue to emerge and as doctors warn they cannot evacuate their most vulnerable patients.
Speaking by phone to CNN on Tuesday, Mohammed Zarqout, who has responsibility for all of Gaza’s hospitals, said the basement at Al Rantisi had been used as a shelter for women and children – not to store Hamas weaponry and hold hostages – as well as being the location of the pharmacy and some of the hospital’s administrative offices before rainwater made it “impossible” to use.
Zarqout also told CNN that medical staff had been forced to leave the hospital by Israeli soldiers, and had been unable to take all the patients with them when they left.
CNN embedded with Israel's military inside Gaza but did not submit the material for this report to the IDF and retained editorial control over the final report.
In a statement on Sunday, the IDF said it was enabling passage by foot and ambulance to evacuate from three hospitals: Al-Shifa, Al-Rantisi and Nasser hospitals.
Israeli troops had been conducting operations inside Al-Rantisi only a few hours before CNN’s visit, according to Hagari. He added that a forensic team would soon test the material left behind in the basement rooms to confirm any potential connection to the more than 200 hostages taken by Hamas during its rampage in Israel on October 7.
The IDF is also working to determine if there is a connection between an apparent nearby tunnel entrance and the rooms under the hospital.
CNN was shown a shaft, about 200 meters away from Al-Rantisi, which Hagari claimed was located next to a Hamas commander’s house and also a school.
Wires leading into the shaft provided power to the tunnel from solar panels fixed onto the roof of the Hamas commander’s house, he also said.
“We [put] a robot inside the tunnel and the robot saw a massive door, a door that is in the direction of the hospital,” Hagari said.
CNN’s team witnessed huge amounts of destruction on their way through Gaza with the Israeli military as they were taken to Al-Rantisi hospital.
Countless houses, tall apartment blocks, hotels and villas had been destroyed. Bullet and shell holes were visible everywhere and firefights were ongoing.
Days of intensive fighting near hospitals in the enclave in recent days have lead to what medical personnel still working there describe as siege-like conditions.
While hospitals are protected in times of war under international humanitarian law, that protection may be compromised if they are believed to be sites of military activity. The World Health Organization has recorded at least 137 attacks on health facilities in Gaza, which it said resulted in 521 deaths and 686 injuries.
Other protected sites, like schools, civilian shelters, and United Nations facilities have already been damaged or destroyed in over a month of Israeli airstrikes. On Monday, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugee announced that over 100 UN staffers had been killed in Gaza since fighting began – the most in the United Nation’s history.
“We are horrified at the latest reports of attacks on and in the vicinity of Al-Shifa Hospital, Al-Rantissi Naser Paediatric Hospital, Al-Quds Hospital, and others in Gaza city and northern Gaza, killing many, including children. Intense hostilities surrounding several hospitals in northern Gaza are preventing safe access for health staff, the injured, and other patients” the statement reads.
Doctors continue to refuse to leave Al-Shifa – the biggest in Gaza – as of Monday, , because they say they fear hundreds of patients will die if they are left behind. Israel has alleged a Hamas center is hidden in the basement there, a claim which the hospital staff and Hamas have denied.
Thousands of civilians are believed to be sheltering at the hospital, and approximately 700 at-risk patients are receiving treatment there, according to Dr. Munir Al-Bursh, Director-General of the Hamas-controlled Health Ministry in Gaza.
Behind tables laden with more than 50 assault rifles, Israel’s far-right national security minister, Itamar Ben Gvir, smiled at a crowd of people who had come to the coastal city of Caesarea for a ceremony to receive the firearms.
The divisive politician has been crisscrossing Israel in the past weeks handing out guns to civilian members of security squads as he expands Israeli citizens’ access to guns in the wake of Hamas’ attack last month. The aim, according to the Ministry of National Security, is to create teams to respond to future terror incidents.
The successes of some volunteer security units in southern Israel, who were able to push Hamas gunmen back on October 7 in certain locales, have attracted new members to the initiative.
The Israeli government says around 700 volunteer security squads, which will operate under the command of Israeli police, have been established since then, tapping into the wellspring of insecurity in the country following Hamas militants’ massacre of an estimated 1,200 people in Israel that day.
“We saw this in the first days of the war, wherever there were weapons, the scale of the disaster was smaller,” Ben Gvir said in a press release.
Critics see it as part of a far-right vision to inflame Israeli-Palestinian relations in the country, especially in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Ben Gvir, who leads the Otzma Yehudit (Jewish Power) party, pledged to give 10,000 guns to towns and cities across Israel, including Israeli settlements in the Palestinian territory, according to the New York Times.
“Weapons will be distributed to squads all around the country, with an emphasize on near- border fence communities in the north and south, mixed cities and settlements in Judea and Samaria,” Ben Gvir’s office said in a statement shared by the Jewish Power party and seen by CNN which used the biblical names for the West Bank.
Palestinians fear these guns will be used against them. Mariam Barghouti, a Palestinian writer and policy analyst, described Ben Gvir’s pledge as “green lighting an intensification of killing Palestinians ­– although that has consistently been the reality in the West Bank,” she told CNN.
Violence has spiked in the West Bank since Israel declared war on Hamas last month and at least 176 Palestinians have since been killed by Israeli forces or Jewish settlers, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health.
The United Nations and many foreign countries consider the West Bank and East Jerusalem as occupied land and therefore view Israeli settlements there as illegal under international law. But Israel says the status of the West Bank is disputed and denies its settlements there are illegal; while it regards all of Jerusalem as sovereign Israeli territory. Some in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s cabinet, such as Ben Gvir and far-right Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich, support annexing the West Bank.
Abdelathim Wadi, who lives in Qusra, south of the West Bank city of Nablus, lost his brother and nephew to an attack by armed settlers as they made their way to a funeral for four other Palestinians, he said.
“There’s no one to defend us… Our movement is so restricted, we’re constantly living in fear that if we leave our house, we’ll be shot,” he said.
When CNN asked Ben Gvir at the Caesarea event last week whether his actions were inciting violence against Palestinians, CNN was kicked out of the ceremony.
A civilian security squad member holds a rifle at an event attended by Israeli National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir.
In a later statement to CNN, Ben Gvir said “forming and arming the security squads will increase the probability that many Israeli families” will survive a similar attack to the one on October 7.
It added that the Israel Defense Forces is “the one responsible for arming and forming the squads in Judaea & Samaria,” and not the police under Ben Gvir.
“And to be clear, the minister’s vision and acts are to provide security to the citizens of Israel, (if) his views were met in the months prior the massacre, the present day could have been different and safer,” the statement added.
Ben Gvir, who has previously been convicted for supporting terrorism and inciting anti-Arab racism, loomed on the edges of the Israeli far-right before his party and other extremist figures shored up Netanyahu’s ruling coalition – the most right-wing in Israel’s history.
Ben Gvir’s party draws its core support from Israeli settlers in the West Bank.  Last week, Heritage Minister Amichay Eliyahu, who is in Ben Gvir’s party, suggested that dropping a nuclear bomb on Gaza could be “one way” for Israel to deal with Hamas. Eliyahu said later he did not mean his answer to be taken literally.
Outside the sports hall, where the ceremony was taking place in Caesarea, a small group of demonstrators gathered against Ben Gvir’s arrival in their neighborhood. Amid chants of “fascist,” protester Roy Malkan accused the minister of “provoking the situation in the West Bank,” and “hoping for riots from the Israeli Palestinians,” Malkan told CNN.
Others against the mass distribution of arms believe the government should be shoring up the police force and the military instead, and not risk weapons falling into the wrong hands.
In a video shared on Ben Gvir’s Facebook page, controversial far-right rapper Yoav Eliasi was seen being embraced by the politician after he received a rifle at a Tel Aviv security squad weapons ceremony.
In addition to the hundreds of new volunteer units, Ben Gvir has called on individuals to “go, arm yourself.” Shooting ranges and gun stores in Israel have seen an increase in foot traffic as private gun licensing rules were relaxed by Ben Gvir in recent weeks, Reuters reported.
A 2017 report from the Small Arms Survey, a Swiss nonprofit tracking global firearms holdings, found civilians owned approximately 557,000 registered and unregistered guns in Israel, or 6.7 guns per 100 people – a tiny fraction of America’s 120 guns per 100 people. Israeli officials in October estimated that at least 300,000 Israelis would be eligible for the new licenses.
Protesters and an anti-protester argue outside an event attended by Ben-Gvir in Caesarea, Israel, in November 2023.
What the country needs is a reduction in arms, he said, pointing to the issue of illegal guns fueling gang-related violence among Arab citizens of Israel. The community – which makes up 20% of the population – has been calling for more measures to help curb criminal violence to deaf years, according to Ben-Porat.
Security squad members at the Caesarea event believe the opposite, telling CNN that the process is regulated with a background check and proof of prior military experience. Those with prior police, national or civil service experience, or an exemption, is also accepted, according to a volunteer sign-up sheet. A large proportion of Israelis have undergone mandatory military service: Israel’s October call for 300,000 reservists, despite having a population 34 times smaller than the US, is nearly equal to the total size of the US’s military reserves.
One of the new recruits, educator Liat Eisner, stressed it was pragmatism that led her to join the volunteer security unit. “We are not fanatics. We’re not crazy for guns. We are concerned citizens who are not willing to be butchered again,” she said.
Eisner said she’s no fan of Israeli politics and previously protested Netanyahu’s attempt at judicial reform. But her priorities have changed since the start of Israel’s war with Hamas.
CNN’s Nada Bashir and Celine Alkhadi contributed to this report.