ISRAEL has confirmed the death of a soldier being held hostage by Hamas after the terrorists released a video which they claimed showed her lifeless body.
Cpl. Noa Marciano, 19, of the IDF's Combat Intelligence Collection Corps 414th was captured by the Hamas brutes on October 7.
The teenager was serving in the Nahal Oz base when it was overrun by terrorists.
Hamas yesterday released footage of the soldier speaking to the camera four days after she was taken hostage.
She identified herself and confirmed she was being held captive in the besieged Palestinian enclave of Gaza.
The horror video then cut to images of what the terrorists claimed was Marciano's dead body.
Still pictures showed a young woman with similar features to Marciano laying with her eyes closed on a blood-stained bedsheet.
Another image showed a bloody head wound.
A caption claimed Marciano was killed "in an airstrike by the Zionist enemy" last Thursday.
Israel's military has now confirmed Marciano's death, recognising her as a "fallen soldier held captive by a terror group".
They made no comment on the circumstances of her death other than to describe her as an "abductee fatality in the hands of a terrorist organisation".
The military statement said Marciano had served as a conscripted private in the border defence corps.
It appears to be the first time Israel has confirmed such a claim by Hamas.
The terror group has previously alleged that dozens of its hostages died or were missing due to the ensuing Gaza war.
News of Marciano's tragic death comes as Israeli forces gear up to storm Hamas' tunnel network and rescue the 239 missing people being held captive by the terrorists.
Gershon Baskin, who oversaw the last hostage exchange with Hamas in 2011, claimed on Tuesday morning that IDF troops could raid the terrorists' underground maze in a matter of hours.
The negotiating expert warned Hamas might kill the hostages in response.
He told The Times: "Within the next few days or even hours, if there isn’t a deal for the release of hostages by agreement, military operations to go into the places hostages might be held will begin.
"First of all we don’t know what the results of those [military operations] will be, if the hostages will be freed or killed in the crossfire, and Hamas may also respond by killing hostages in response to Israelis going after them in the tunnels."
Baskin helped arrange the return of an Israeli soldier in exchange for over 1,000 Palestinian prisoners in 2011.
Many of the prisoners who were released, including Hamas ringleader Yahya Sinwar, helped carry out the brutal October 7 attacks on Israel which killed some 1,200 men, women, and children.
Israel claimed on Tuesday to have captured Hamas' parliament and police headquarters in a move that could mean the end of the terror group's 16-year tyranny over the Gaza Strip.
Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant declared Hamas no longer maintained control over Gaza: "There is no power of Hamas capable of stopping the IDF. The IDF is advancing to every point.
"The Hamas organisation has lost control of Gaza, terrorists are fleeing south, civilians are looting Hamas bases, they have no confidence in the government."
Shortly after his announcement, IDF troops were pictured waving Israeli flags inside Gaza's parliament building.
The IDF last night revealed it had raided the city's Al Rantisi children's hospital where it claimed Hamas operatives were holed up.
It released footage of what appeared to be an underground terror nest littered with babies' nappies and bottles - possibly indicating hostages could have been held there.
Troops said they found many weapons in the hospital basement, including explosive belts, grenades, weapons and RPG missiles.
ISRAEL claims Hamas has lost control of Gaza after reportedly capturing the terror group's parliament and police headquarters.
After 16 brutal years, Hamas's tyranny over the Strip could finally be crumbling as Israeli forces surrounding Gaza City move to fully capture it.
Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant has declared that Hamas no longer maintained control over Gaza.
In a statement, he said: "There is no power of Hamas capable of stopping the IDF. The IDF is advancing to every point.
"The Hamas organization has lost control of Gaza, terrorists are fleeing south, civilians are looting Hamas bases, they have no confidence in the government."
Shortly after his announcement, IDF troops were pictured waving Israeli flags inside Gaza's parliament building after capturing the site.
The striking image showed proud and smiling soldiers inside the bullet-ridden building with the rows of seats where Hamas leaders used to sit still in-tact.
Only the Palestinian terror organisation has used the building since taking complete administrative control of Gaza in 2007.
A separate picture also appears to show Israeli troops having seized the Hamas-run Gaza military police headquarters as heavily-armed soldiers once again smiled with flags.
Last night, the IDF said it raided Gaza City's Al Rantisi children's hospital after claiming Hamas operatives were holed up inside.
It released footage of what appeared to be an underground terror nest littered with babies' nappies and bottles - possibly indicating hostages could have been held there.
Troops said they found many weapons in the hospital basement, including explosive belts, grenades, weapons and RPG missiles.
IDF spokesperson Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari said: “Underneath the hospital, in the basement, we found a Hamas command and control center, suicide-bomb vests, grenades, AK-47 assault rifles, explosive devices, RPGs, and other weapons."
"This is a kind of gear used for a major fight," he added.
The shocking footage emerged shortly after the IDF wiped out a Hamas terror cell in Al-Quds hospital after claiming Hamas was using patients as human shields to try and escape.
Scores of IDF troops and tanks are also surrounding Gaza's biggest medical facility, the Al Shifa hospital, amid fears a Hamas HQ is hidden in the tunnels underneath.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) claimed that power had completely run out and 36 newborn babies were fighting for their lives after having to be removed from defunct incubators.
The WHO stated that the facility is "nearly a cemetery" as bodies piled up inside and outside.
For days, international pressure has been mounting for Israel to better protect civilians and the hospitals caught in the crossfires.
US President Joe Biden stated that Al-Shifa hospital "must be protected" as fighting raged close to the facility.
His comments followed Prime Minister Rishi Sunak urging Israel to "take all possible measures to protect innocent civilians, including at hospitals".
On Monday, he re-affirmed Israel's right to defend itself, but argued that "too many civilians are losing their lives".
The IDF today said it was in the process of coordinating the transfer of incubators to Gaza to help save newborns.
Over 11,000 people - including 4,500 children - are said to have been killed in Gaza since Israel began its retaliatory strikes and ground operations, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.
Israel's bombardment and siege of the Strip was sparked by Hamas's bloody cross-border killing spree on Israel, that saw 1,200 slaughtered and some 230 hostages dragged into Gaza.
Forty days into the grinding conflict and the bomb-blitzed Strip has been "split in two" by IDF forces who have relentlessly pushed ahead with their ground invasion in an attempt to wipe out Hamas.
Now, an Israeli hostage negotiator states that Israel is gearing up to storm Hamas's terror tunnels to retrieve the hostages within "hours".
Baskin told The Times: "Within the next few days or even hours, if there isn’t a deal for the release of hostages by agreement, military operations to go into the places hostages might be held will begin."
But Baksin, who helped secure the return of an Israeli soldier in exchange for 1,000 Palestinian prisoners in 2011, warned that Hamas terrorists may kill the hostages in response to IDF forces hunting them through the tunnels.
Hamas has already claimed that 50 hostages have been killed by Israel's air strikes, which Baskin claimed was "very likely".
AN airline has relaunched flights to a holiday hotspot that was once popular with Brit tourists.
The little-known holiday resort in Egypt is the latest new destination for the tour operator.
Set in the south of Egypt, Marsa Alam is around 200 miles from Hurghada.
The winter sun destination has yet to become as popular as other more well-known tourist spots in Egypt, such as Sharm el Sheikh.
TUI first scrapped flights to the resort town in 2021 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the airline relaunched flights to Marsa Alam earlier this month.
Flights to the Egyptian airport resumed on November 2, 2023.
Two weekly flights depart from London Gatwick to Marsa Alam on Thursdays and Sundays, with a flight time of 5 hours and 30 minutes.
The weather in Marsa Alam is warm throughout the year, but holidaymakers can expect highs of 27C in November.
In addition to the new flights, there are also plenty of resorts for holidaymakers to choose from, including the Wadi Sabarah Lodge.
The Wadi Sabarah Lodge is home to a total of 46 rooms and three suites.
While each of the rooms has an en-suite, some of them come with either a sea view or a balcony.
Other features include an infinity pool, meditation and massage sessions, an on-site restaurant called Tamarisk, and a diving centre.
Or there is the Jaz Grand Marsa resort, which starts from £1035pp on an all-inclusive basis, also with transfers and luggage.
Other all-inclusive resorts include the Hilton Marsa Alam and the Albatros Sea World Marsa Alam.
Sun Online Travel have found packages starting from £1,100 per person in November and December, while flight-only deals starting at around £170 for a one-way ticket.
Richard Sofer, Commercial Director for TUI UK, previously said: "We’re extremely excited to start taking guests to Marsa Alam.
"Egypt is an incredible holiday destination and great value, and I’m thrilled that we’re now able to give visitors the opportunity to discover a whole new region of the country."
Despite the ongoing conflict in Gaza, which borders Egypt, destinations such as Marsa Alam, Sharm el Sheikh, Hurghada, and El Gouna remain safe for travel.
Travel is only advised against along the Egypt-Libya border and the Egypt-Israel border.
Earlier this year, low-budget airline Ryanair announced that it was adding seven new routes from its three London airports.
The seven new routes include Belfast, Basel, Ouarzazate in Morocco, Poprad in Slovakia, Tirana, Treviso, and Vigo.
The budget airline will also add more flights to 30 other routes that it operates out of Stansted, Luton, and Gatwick.
Meanwhile, this new European airline is launching new flights next year.
ISRAELI forces are gearing up to storm Hamas' tunnel network and rescue hundreds of hostages as hopes fade for a deal with the terror group.
Gershon Baskin, who oversaw the last hostage exchange with Hamas in 2011, has warned that IDF troops could storm the tunnels in hours.
Attempts to secure the release of the 239 Israelis and foreigners held in the underground maze are growing evermore "critical" as the ground operation in Gaza intensifies.
The chance of securing them safely fades daily as IDF troops and tanks continue to blitz the Gaza Strip.
Baskin has even warned that Hamas terrorists may kill the hostages in response to IDF forces hunting them through the tunnels.
The negotiating expert, now 67, helped arrange the return of an Israeli soldier in exchange for over 1,000 Palestinian prisoners in 2011.
Baskin told The Times: "Within the next few days or even hours, if there isn’t a deal for the release of hostages by agreement, military operations to go into the places hostages might be held will begin."
"First of all we don’t know what the results of those [military operations] will be, if the hostages will be freed or killed in the crossfire, and Hamas may also respond by killing hostages in response to Israelis going after them in the tunnels."
Many of the prisoners released in 2011, including Hamas ringleader Yahya Sinwar, went on to carry out the October 7 attacks that killed at least 1,200 Israelis.
After storming the border, Hamas gunmen massacred hundreds of men, women and children in towns and at a music festival - while also taking hundreds hostage.
Now almost 40 days later the bomb-blitzed Gaza Strip has been "split in two" by IDF forces who have relentlessly pushed ahead with their ground invasion in an attempt to wipe out Hamas.
On Monday they claimed to have discovered one of Hamas' lairs and weapons headquarters set in a hospital basement in Gaza.
They suspect the terror group to be using hospitals in the strip, in which hundreds of civilians are trapped, as covers for command centres.
The IDF said on Monday that troops were fired at by Hamas fighters from the entrance of Al Quds hospital as they "embedded" themselves among civilians.
Scores of IDF troops and tanks also surrounded Gaza's biggest medical facility, the Al Shifa hospital, amid fears Hamas' HQ is hidden in the tunnels underneath.
Like Al Quds, it has stopped accepting new patients after its fuel ran out and patients are struggling without enough food, water or medical supplies.
Baskin thinks the hostages are likely being held throughout densely populated areas in the besieged enclave.
Out of the hundreds taken captive, four women have been released and one female Israeli solders was rescued.
Hamas have also claimed that at least 50 of them were killed in Israeli airstrikes, which Baskin dubbed "very likely", although unverified.
He said: "They’re [Hamas] not showing bodies, giving names of hostages, they’re giving no information, so the working assumption of Israel is there are [about] 240 hostages being held by Hamas, all of them are alive and Hamas is responsible for all of them."
Hamas said on Monday it is ready to release up to 70 women and children in return for a five-day truce with Israel.
Israeli PM Netanyahu has previously insisted that they will not arrange a ceasefire until the hostages are released.
Baskin told the Times that Hamas would have to agree to release up to 150 of them to secure a pause in fighting.
He added: "For Israel to implement a ceasefire, it means they will have to redeploy their forces because if they just stop where they are, they are sitting ducks for Hamas to shoot and kill soldiers, so they can’t just have a ceasefire."
"It’s not just about calling off the war for a few days, they have to get the soldiers into safer locations."
After unleashing carnage in Israel, thousands of Hamas militants retreated to the vast underground labyrinth which is thought to cover hundreds of miles.
They are believed to have taken with them dozens of abducted captives, including children snatched from their murdered parents.
Jonathan Conricus, an Israel Defence Forces (IDF) spokesman, previously said: "Think of the Gaza Strip as one layer for civilians and then another layer for Hamas.
"We are trying to get to that second layer that Hamas has built."
JEREMY Corbyn refused to say Hamas were a terrorist group that should not be in power almost 40 times last night.
The former Labour leader was being interviewed by Piers Morgan on his TalkTV show about the conflict between Israel and Gaza.
Corbyn, who attended Saturday’s pro-Palestinian marches, said he has condemned Hamas’ actions on October 7, adding: “Of course I have, at every speech I’ve made I’ve utterly condemned the killing on October 7th and it was the taking of innocent life.
“It was totally wrong under any circumstances. You don’t bring back the tragedy of those 1,400 deaths by killing 10,000 in Gaza.
But he refused to answer the frustrated TalkTV host when he asked him if 15 times Hamas were a terror group - and similarly whether they should stay in power.
The Islington North MP was in the studio with Len McCluskey, the former General Secretary of UNITE Union.
GRETA Thunberg sparked fury at a climate protest by wearing a Palestinian scarf and calling for a ceasefire in Gaza.
The 20-year-old eco-protester’s Amsterdam speech was interrupted by a man who grabbed her microphone.
Volker Becker, president of the German- Israel Society DIG, said her outburst marked “the end of Greta Thunberg as a climate activist”.
He added: “From now, Israel hater is her main job.” The Israeli embassy in Germany said she was “again misusing the climate stage for her own purposes”.
The Israeli embassy in Germany also wrote on X that it was “sad that Greta Thunberg is again misusing the climate stage for her own purposes”.
On Sunday, Greta was talking to a crowd of tens of thousands in Amsterdam when she invited a Palestinian and an Afghan woman onto the stage.
She said: “As a climate justice movement, we have to listen to the voices of those who are being oppressed and those who are fighting for freedom and for justice.
ISRAELI military claimed they have discovered one of Hamas' lairs and weapons headquarters set in a hospital basement in Gaza.
IDF footage from the Rantisi hospital revealed what appears to be an underground terror nest littered with babies' nappies and bottles - possibly indicating hostages could have been held there.
Troops said they found many weapons in the hospital basement, including explosive belts, grenades, weapons and RPG missiles.
In a video published by the IDF, the forces spokesperson Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari said: "This is a kind of gear used for a major fight."
Pointing to each item laid out on the floor, he explained: "These are explosives, these are vests with explosives [in them] for a terrorist to explode on [Israeli] forces among hospitals, among patients."
A motorcycle with gunshot marks was also found, which according to Israeli military officials, was used by Hamas terrorists in the October 7 massacre.
TILL THE END IDF says Hamas 'hides rockets in playgrounds' as Netanyahu vows 'no ceasefire'
In addition, troops claim they have found signs indicating that hostages were held in the room as they found a chair with women's clothes and a rope.
The IDF claimed they uncovered an operational tunnel shaft, which leads from the hospital to the home of a senior naval commander located just a few yards away.
Hamas and hospital staff deny claims that a terror command cell is hidden in tunnels underneath hospitals.
The shocking footage comes after Israeli forces wiped out a Hamas terror cell in another Gaza hospital as they used patients as human shields to try and escape.
The IDF today said troops were fired at by Hamas fighters from the entrance of Al Quds hospital as they "embedded" themselves among civilians.
Israeli forces returned fire, claiming to have taken out 21 terrorists in the attack.
An IDF statement read: "RPG fire and small arms fire were directed at the soldiers from the direction of the al Quds Hospital in Gaza City.
"The shooting was carried out by a terrorist squad that had embedded itself within a group of civilians at the entrance of the hospital.
"During the incident, approximately 21 terrorists were killed and there were no casualties to our forces."
It did not confirm or deny whether any civilians were killed during the fighting.
Israel claims that as civilians fled the building Hamas militants came out of nearby buildings and his among them in order to attack the Israeli forces.
The Al Shifa hospital, the largest in Gaza City, has also come under fire amid IDF war efforts in the Strip and has become a focal point in the war.
Scores of IDF troops and tanks surrounded the Al Shifa hospital today amid growing fears for the hundreds of civilians trapped inside.
Like Al Quds, it has stopped accepting new patients after its fuel has completely run out and patients are struggling without enough food, water or medical supplies.
The Israeli military believes terror group Hamas' main command centre is located under the Al Shifa hospital complex and senior leaders of the group are hiding there, using the facility as a shield as they did with Al Quds.
THE Shadow Chancellor called for a pensions market shake-up to encourage greater investment in British companies and reignite economic growth.
With less than a fortnight to the Autumn Statement, Rachel Reeves briefed journalists on some of her plans to boost the country and pensioners’ finances.
On the same day as the reshuffle, Ms Reeves claimed that her reforms could boost typical pension pots by £30,000.
This is based on an average 22-year-old putting seven to 12 per cent of their salary into a company pension and being matched by the company.
Ms Reeves said that this lift could be achieved by unlocking pension funds’ capital to invest in the British economy and increase returns for savers.
She has urged the introduction of a French-style scheme which makes it easier for defined contribution pension funds to invest in UK growth assets alongside the British Business Bank.
The British Business Bank was set up in 2014 to lend money and buy stakes in smaller UK businesses.
Ms Reeves argued it would help small, innovative firms remain in the UK, rather than have to shift abroad to get financial backing.
She said she would push The Pensions Regulator to “do its job properly” and consolidate the industry.
And she emphatically insisted she did not have plans to raise taxes.
BRITISH pension funds’ investment in British listed companies has dwindled to from 53 per cent to just 6 per cent in three decades.
The result is British firms can’t get as much investor support as they can from overseas.
That means UK companies are valued lower, there is less investment in the UK and lower returns in our pension.
Simon French, of Panmure Gordon, reckons a company investing in London will be priced 23 per cent cheaper than if it went for the US.
But why should our British funds invest in the stock market? With high interest rates investors can get 6 per cent on their cash.
Recent listings like CAB Payments have short-changed the City.
Telling the pension industry to back Britain is a hard sell right now.
BRITISH defence giant BAE Systems has booked £30billion in orders as a result of the Ukraine War and Israel-Hamas conflict, it has revealed.
It has taken another £10billion in the last few weeks since the end of the half year after boss Charles Woodburn predicted the “elevated global threat environment” would bring in business.
BAE has also won £3.9billion of funding for the UK’s nuclear-powered submarine programme.
Its factory in Rochester, Kent, was last week targeted by pro-Palestinian protesters.
HOUSE sellers are cutting asking prices by the most since 2018 — buyers bagging average reductions of £6,088.
Rightmove has recorded a 1.7 per cent drop this month, the most in five years. However, prices are still only 3 per cent off their peak. They rocketed 25 per cent during Covid.
Rightmove said agreed house sale numbers were 10 per cent down on 2019, with higher mortgage costs stretching chain deals.
ROYAL Mail has been fined £5.6 million after a quarter of first-class post took longer than a day to arrive last year.
Regulator Ofcom found only 73.37 per cent of first-class mail was delivered on time. This compares with 90 per cent of second class post — which also missed its objective.
Royal Mail is meant to deliver 93 per cent of first class mail within one working day and 98.5 per cent of second class within three days.
It blamed last year’s postie strikes for disruption.
Ofcom said that even adjusting stats to allow for industrial action, bad weather and the impact of the runway closure at Stansted Airport the levels were only rated at 82 and 95.5 per cent.
Royal Mail said that it had been an “uniquely challenging” year for the company.
The poor service will be a sting to letter-writers who have seen the price of a first class stamp hiked from 85p last year to £1.25 last month.
.
ATTACKS on shop staff are increasing — with two in five shouted at, spat on, threatened or hit every week.
Nearly half feel unsafe at work, a Retail Trust poll of almost 1,600 shop staff found.
Two in three have faced abuse when confronting a thief. Shoplifting cases are up a quarter in the past year, retailers blaming the surge on lack of police response and the cost of living.
COLE PALMER grew up worshipping Wayne Rooney and has also been mentored by Raheem Sterling.
Now the Chelsea star is set to emulate both his heroes after Gareth Southgate handed the in-form forward a first senior England call-up.
Palmer, 21, has been impressive for the Blues and showed nerves of steel to score a last-gasp penalty leveller against former side Manchester City in Sunday’s thrilling 4-4 draw at Stamford Bridge.
And that was his fourth successful spot-kick of the season, earning him the nickname ‘Cool Palmer’.
But the attacker — from Wythenshawe in Manchester — admits despite growing up playing for City’s academy, he was a huge fan of United and their 253-goal all-time record scorer Rooney as a kid.
Palmer said: “What a player. When I was growing up I used to watch all the football and the one that sticks in my mind is Rooney.
HEN DO Chelsea hero offers to 'broker' Osimhen deal and says 'I'm gonna make that happen'
If selected by boss Southgate, Palmer will get another chance to impress against minnows Malta in England’s dead-rubber Euros qualifier on Friday night at Wembley.
And it is the same iconic stage where Rooney scored many of his 53 goals in 120 Three Lions appearances.
It was only in July that Palmer celebrated a Euros triumph with England’s Under-21s as a fringe player with boyhood club City.
TOUCHING TRIBUTE Bobby Charlton's grandson melts hearts with stories of beloved 'grandpa'
Palmer chose to leave Pep Guardiola’s remarkable Treble winners in an initial £40million deal on deadline day in September.
Despite netting a belter for City in the Community Shield against Arsenal in August, the Mancunian was left unconvinced by boss Guardiola’s promise of more game time at the Etihad following Jeremy Doku’s £55.5m arrival from Rennes.
Palmer, who can play as a No 10 or on either flank, had believed he could enjoy a breakthrough season with Riyad Mahrez off to Saudi Arabia.
But that all changed when Belgian winger Doku was signed just two weeks later.
City supporters may have thought Palmer would show the same patience and play the waiting game like fellow local lad Phil Foden — who is also in the England senior squad.
Straight-talking Palmer hinted that he had itchy feet at the Premier League champions after last March’s England U21s friendly defeat to Croatia at Fulham’s Craven Cottage.
Palmer, who scored on his Young Lions debut in September 2021 against Kosovo following a delightful Cruyff turn, had only made five starts for City at that point.
None of those had come in the league during a “tough” campaign.
When asked about Foden’s impressive patience, Palmer replied: “You can take inspiration from that — but not everyone is the same.
“People have different paths. City’s thing is not to let you go out on loan, which I respect.
Palmer’s lack of minutes at the Etihad meant that U21 regulars probably saw more of him than fans of his club.
And Guardiola’s insistence last week that he would never block a move for any of his City players has been treated with scepticism by Palmer’s own camp.
After all, in the summer Kyle Walker and Bernardo Silva were both denied moves.
But Palmer was allowed to go because Guardiola believed him to be expendable and City wanted the hefty fee to help them with Financial Fair Play compliance.
Since moving south to London, Palmer’s friendship with Sterling, 28, has been key to him settling into his new environment.
Palmer, already close to Sterling from their time at City, was asked about his team-mate in a word association game shown by Sky Sports and he immediately replied with “big brother”.
Having the fellow winger waiting for him at Stamford Bridge — after becoming Chelsea’s final signing of the summer window — helped him hit the ground running.
Palmer has now become a star but he admits to needing help from his mum Janet having moved into a new house in Surrey, close to the club’s training ground in Cobham.
He admitted: “I need to learn how to cook and use a washing machine.
Insiders at Chelsea say Palmer is a shy lad for whom a football pitch is much more his comfort zone.
He has already described this year as “surreal” — even before his call-up into Southgate’s Three Lions squad in place of injured Tottenham midfielder James Maddison.
Palmer was a man on a mission during last summer’s Under-21 Euros in Georgia, where he started the tournament as back-up to Noni Madueke, now a team-mate at Chelsea.
He took Madueke’s spot and was sensational in a 3-0 semi-final win over Israel.
Palmer kept his place for their triumph over Spain in the final and is now a shining light for Mauricio Pochettino’s Blues at club level.
SunSport understands Chelsea will have to give City a small additional payment if Palmer gets on the pitch for the Group C games against either Malta or North Macedonia three days later.
But it will be a modest sum as the total of all the add-ons in the deal was around £2.5m.
Thrive on his expected Lions debut in this international window and it will not be long before people start questioning if Guardiola let him go on the cheap.
BRITS with loved-ones in Gaza say they are “drowning in sorrow” as Israel’s airstrikes continue.
Five British Palestinians told a press conference in London that they had lost 86 members of their extended families in all.
Mum-of-two Wafaa Shamallakh, 37, said three distant cousins died yesterday in an airstrike.
But her worst day of the war was October 8 when her uncle’s family of 10 “were wiped out in a matter of seconds,” including a two-year-old infant Omar.
Fighting back tears Wafaa said: “What words can I use to describe the sorrow and anguish we are all drowning in?
“We celebrated Omar’s baby shower a few months ago.
Accountant Omar Mofeed said 40 members of his family had died including retired female judge Fatima Mokhallai, 75.
He said she was killed with her husband Najar when a missile hit their home as they slept.
Yasmine Ahmed, of Human Rights Watch, condemned Hamas for its October 7 massacre of Jews and demanded the culprits are prosecuted.
But she accused Israel of “war crimes” over its attacks on Gaza.
A FORMER US official claims that a hitman hired by Iran tried to assassinate him for £250,000 in an effort to take out its enemies.
John Bolton, former national security adviser, believes Iran tried to pay someone to either kidnap and kill him, potentially on US soil.
Since the Israel Hamas war broke out following the October 7 attacks by Hamas - tensions between the US and Iran have been rising.
Almost weekly Iranian-backed rebels have attacked American bases in Syria and Iraq.
Now Iran seems to have turned to a different form of proxy fighter; a hired gun, in what Bolton describes as an "act of war".
But Bolton does not appear to be the only target, as the country appears to be hiring hitmen around the world in an effort to intimidate and take out its enemies.
A video posted online by a channel associated with the Iran Revolutionary Guard vows to kill former US officials like Bolton.
One of them is former president Donald Trump, as part of a plan to avenge the 2020 assassination of terrorism mastermind Qassem Soleimani.
The FBI has an arrest warrant out for the Iranian officer who they believe hired the hitman to take out Bolton.
The alleged plot would have him travel to Washington DC, corner Bolton in a garage and kill him.
Bolton said: "This was not internet chatter. This was a negotiation to murder an American citizen, a former government official."
While the assassin turned out to be an FBI informant, Bolton still has Secret Service protection stationed outside of him home to protect him from the ongoing threat.
The FBI along with other intelligence agencies told CBS 60 minutes that Iran's assassination efforts are become "more frequent" and "bolder".
Counter Terror police in Britain have also seen an increase in similar attacks.
Fifteen kidnapping and assassination attempts have been foiled on UK soil in the last year alone.
Head of UK Counter Terrorism Matt Jukes told CBS: "I have been involved in national security policing for over 20 years. What we've seen in the last 18 months is a real acceleration."
"I think we're always gonna see this collaboration between criminal organisations. We know that this will not always be a direct line from a state organisation to a threat to a potential kidnapping."
A foreign intelligence agency shared an intercepted call detailing how Tehran is hiring killers.
An Iranian smuggler from Urmia, near the Turkish border, can be heard telling intelligence agents that he was approached by Iran's Revolutionary Guard.
They offered to turn a blind eye to his smuggling crimes if he helped them.
The smuggler can be heard saying: "Their request was that I find people who could work for them. What kind of work?
"'Anything. Like: catching someone for us so they can be beaten up or gotten rid of.'"
One such person is alleged drug dealer Mansour Rasouli.
He reportedly agreed to assassinate three candidates chosen by Iran in exchange for a million dollars.
Weeks later he was kidnapped and interrogated, apparently by Israeli intellignece.
In his confession tape he identified the targets: "One is an Israeli at the embassy in Istanbul, Turkey. Another one is an American general in Germany. And one is a journalist in France."
ISRAELI forces wiped out a Hamas terror cell in a Gaza hospital as they used patients as human shields to try and escape.
The IDF today said troops were fired at by Hamas fighters from the entrance of Al Quds hospital as they "embedded" themselves among civilians.
Israeli forces returned fire, claiming to have taken out 21 terrorists in the attack.
An IDF statement read: "RPG fire and small arms fire were directed at the soldiers from the direction of the al Quds Hospital in Gaza City.
"The shooting was carried out by a terrorist squad that had embedded itself within a group of civilians at the entrance of the hospital.
"During the incident, approximately 21 terrorists were killed and there were no casualties to our forces."
It did not confirm or deny whether any civilians were killed during the fighting.
Israel claims that as civilians fled the building Hamas militants came out of nearby buildings and his among them in order to attack the Israeli forces.
The Al Shifa hospital, the largest in Gaza City, has also come under fire amid IDF war efforts in the Strip and has become a focal point in the war.
Scores of IDF troops and tanks surrounded the Al Shifa hospital today amid growing fears for the hundreds of civilians trapped inside.
Like Al Quds, it has stopped accepting new patients after its fuel has completely run out and patients are struggling without enough food, water or medical supplies.
The Israeli military believes terror group Hamas' main command centre is located under the Al Shifa hospital complex and senior leaders of the group are hiding there, using the facility as a shield as they did with Al Quds.
The EU condemned Hamas on Sunday for using "hospitals and civilians as human shields" in the besieged enclave, but also urged Israel to show "maximum restraint" and protect civilians.
Dozens of newborn babies who were kept on incubators are trapped in Al Shifa, sharing regular beds without the right neo-natal care as the centre is without fuel and electricity.
World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Ghebreyesu said in a Twitter post on Sunday that "the hospital is not functioning as a hospital anymore".
It is not yet known whether the IDF plans to storm the hospital in a ground raid.
Surgeon Dr Mokhallalati told Reuters today: "The tanks are in front of the hospital. We are under full blockade. It’s a totally civilian area.
"Only hospital facility, hospital patients, doctors and other civilians staying in the hospital. Someone should stop this."
Days ago Israel claimed to have killed a Hamas commander who held a thousand terrified Palestinian civilians hostage inside a children's hospital.
And Gaza's Indonesia hospital was hit in an alleged Israel strike days ago as the IDF carried out "pressure cooker" bombings.
But the IDF said it did not target the hospital or any civilians ahead of the explosion.
Hamas and hospital staff deny the claim that a terror command cell is hidden in tunnels underneath the Al Shifa facility and say the Israeli military is using a pretext to strike it.
Israel revealed photographs, diagrams and audio recordings to show how Hamas was using the centre to hide a variety of command posts and entry points into the extensive tunnel network under Gaza.
Hamas has a mysterious 311-mile maze of tunnels riddled with traps that sprawl underground in the Strip.
The IDF claims to have so far destroyed at least 130 tunnel entrances since the war erupted just over a month ago.
Hidden up to 100ft below the surface, the entrances are enclosed under the floors of homes, mosques and schools - allowing fighters to move unseen between homes and alleyways within Gaza.
It is used by the warped group to transport people and goods as well as store rocks and ammunition.
According to the IDF, Hamas has lost control of northern Gaza after claiming to have "divided the enclave" in two.
It continues to hunt down terrorist strongholds in Gaza, including one crucial Hamas cell they captured last week after a bloody ten-hour gunfight.
Today Israeli forces released footage of an underwater mission where they claim to have recovered weapons left by Hamas following the October 7 onslaught.
Firearms, explosives and ammunition were found on the seabed.
Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry claims over 11,000 people have been killed throughout the bloody conflict but questions have been raised about the accuracy of the fatality figures.
Israel says Hamas killed over 1,200 people in their attacks on October 7.