Dr Munir al-Bursh, director-general of the Gaza health ministry, told Al Jazeera television that Israeli forces had raided the western side of the medical complex.
“There are big explosions and dust entered the areas where we are. We believe an explosion occurred inside the hospital,” Bursh said.
Gaza health ministry spokesperson Ashraf al-Qidra to Al Jazeera: “The occupation army is now in the basement, and searching the basement. They are inside the complex, shooting and carrying out bombings”.
Israeli forces first raided the surgery and emergency departments, Mohammed Zaqout, the Gaza health ministry’s director of hospitals, told Al Jazeera.
Israel’s military has said it was carrying out a raid against Hamas in al-Shifa hospital early on Wednesday, conducting what it called a “precise and targeted operation against Hamas in a specified area” of the medical complex.
Less than an hour earlier, around 1am local time, a Gaza health ministry spokesperson said Israel had told officials in the territory that it would raid the hospital complex “in the coming minutes”. Al-Shifa is Gaza’s biggest hospital.
Dr Munir al-Bursh, director-general of the Gaza health ministry, told Al Jazeera television that Israeli forces had raided the western side of the sprawling site. “There are big explosions and dust entered the areas where we are. We believe an explosion occurred inside the hospital,” Bursh said.
A spokesperson for the Ministry of Health in Gaza has told Al Jazeera that Israeli forces are searching the basement of the al-Shifa Hospital.
This is the Guardian’s live coverage of the Israel-Hamas war with me, Helen Sullivan.
The top development this morning: the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said early on Wednesday it was “carrying out a precise and targeted operation” against Hamas in al-Shifa hospital, the largest hospital in Gaza.
Gaza’s health ministry was quoted by Palestinian news agency Shebab as saying that “dozens of soldiers” have entered the al-Shifa emergency department building, and that tanks have entered the complex.
More shortly.
A witness inside al-Shifa told the BBC they saw six tanks and more than 100 soldiers inside the hospital complex, in the area around the emergency department. The Guardian has not been able to verify the claims.
Ahmed Mokhallalati, a surgeon at al-Shifa, has told Al Jazeera that Israeli tanks and bulldozers had entered the complex. ‘The firing is still heavy, and we are hearing explosions everywhere,’ he said.
Figures vary widely on how many civilians are at the site. On Sunday, the World Health Organization (WHO) put the figure at about 1,500 displaced people, up to 650 inpatients and 200 to 500 health workers.
A White House official, speaking after the operation was announced, said it does not want to see a firefight in a hospital. A spokesperson for the National Security Council, who did not wish to be named, said: “We do not support striking a hospital from the air and we don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital where innocent people, helpless people, sick people trying to get medical care they deserve are caught in the crossfire.
Joe Biden and Benjamin Netanyahu spoke “at length” about ongoing efforts to secure the release of hostages held by Hamas, including many children and a number of Americans, the White House said.
The IDF announcement of its operation came within an hour of Palestinian health officials in Gaza saying the IDF had told them it would raid the hospital “within minutes”. The Gaza health ministry spokesperson, Ashraf al-Qidra, told Al Jazeera that Israel “informed us that it will raid al-Shifa hospital complex in the coming minutes”.
On its Hebrew X account, the IDF appeared to signal that once inside the hospital, it would continue to have a presence there, saying, “in the continuation of the operation, incubators, medical equipment and baby food are expected to be transferred to the hospital”.
The White House has said it has intelligence supporting Israel’s claims that Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad use some hospitals in the Gaza Strip – including al-Shifa hospital – to conceal or support their military operations and to hold hostages. “That is a war crime,” national security spokesperson John Kirby said, adding that those actions by Hamas did not lessen Israel’s responsibility to protect civilians in the course of its military operations.
Hamas said it strongly condemned and rejected the claims, adding that these statements “give a green light to the Israeli occupation to commit further brutal massacres targeting hospitals”.
The WHO has insisted that moving the most vulnerable patients from al-Shifa hospital has become an “impossible task”. WHO spokesperson Margaret Harris, speaking to reporters in Geneva, said the “heroic” health workers have been “doing whatever they can to keep going” while the facility has been without power since Saturday and there was not enough food and clean water.
Another 200,000 people have fled northern Gaza in the past 10 days, the UN has said. The UN office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (Ocha) said on Tuesday that only one hospital in the northern half of the blockaded Gaza Strip, al-Awda, still had electricity and was able to receive patients, with other medical facilities in sprawling Gaza City now mostly functioning as shelters for those fleeing the violence.
Israeli authorities have said they have now identified the remains of 859 civilians killed during the 7 October Hamas attack inside southern Israel. The work to identify bodies is ongoing, they said. On 10 November, Israel revised down the number of Israeli deaths on 7 October from the previously given figure of 1,400 to 1,200.
The families of Israelis being held hostage by Hamas have started a five-day march on Tuesday from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to demand the government does more to secure their release. The prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is coming under fierce criticism from some relatives for not doing more to secure their release, even as Israeli troops push further into the Gaza Strip and the region is bombarded by the Israeli air force.
Tens of thousands of demonstrators have gathered in Washington on Tuesday to support Israel, condemn antisemitism and demand the release of the hostages. US Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Mike Johnson spoke at the “March for Israel” event on the National Mall, as well as family members of the hostages.
The former Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif is urging his country not to become embroiled in a direct war with Israel or the US.
The best way to defend the Palestinian people was to avoid giving the west a reason to claim they are acting as a proxy of Iran, Zarif said, adding that Israel was trying to lure Iran into such a battle.
In two interventions that have led to charges of betrayal, and in a passionate defence of his views, Zarif said the Iranian people accepted the idea of defending what is right, but that this did not mean mobilising the army.
In two lengthy interventions, one to the Bar Association and another on the Telegram channel, he said he had gone public due to the non-stop barrage of letters calling on Iran to join the war.
At one point, in exasperation he said: “If they drag Iran into the middle of the war, nothing will happen to any of the government officials. The bomb will fall on the people of Iran.
Apart from the economic cost, he said, the entry of Iran and Hezbollah into the war would be just what Israel wanted because Israel also wanted to drag the US into the conflict on the Israeli side.
He accused Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, of “trying to somehow drag the war out and bring America in”. He said this knowledge of Israel’s intention was the reasoning behind the relatively non-escalatory words of the Hezbollah leader, Hassan Nasrallah, since the conflict began.
Asked if he thought the process of normalisation between Israel and the Arab states would end, he said: “The process of normalisation may slow down, but it is unlikely to stop.” During Donald Trump’s presidency, the UAE and Bahrain signed bilateral normalisation agreements with Israel, and Saudi Arabia had been expected to follow suit before the outbreak of the Gaza war.
He said he was proposing that Iran announce its readiness to sign a nonaggression pact with the Gulf Cooperation Council – Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE – because such a deal would prove Iran was not a threat to the region and “the Gulf States [would] also undertake not to cooperate with anyone against us”.
He dismissed the announcements made at the weekend by the 57 strong Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, saying: “What has been published so far is the continuation of traditional positions. It is unlikely to have any impact.” Iran and other members of the so-called axis of resistance – an umbrella term for anti-Israeli actors such as Syria and Hezbollah – had been demanding more concrete actions.
Zarif, often attacked by Iranian hardliners, has praised the diplomats for abandoning the policy of scaling the walls of foreign embassies and instead engaging with regional countries that used to be Iran’s enemies.
He claimed Israel had to engineer two contradictory positions, one that projected invincibility and the other that it was a victim of oppression.
He added: “If we describe the detained Israelis as prisoners, then we must describe the thousands of Palestinians in Israeli prisons as prisoners as well.
Since Israel were occupiers, he said, they had only duties not rights.
Zarif repeated the Iranian view that a referendum should be held in Israel to decide its future. “If all the Jews who are in Palestine today and all the Palestinians in the territories and in the diaspora participate in the referendum, the result will be in favour of Palestine,” he said.
Zarif has been forced to defend himself from a deluge of criticism, saying: “In the past few days, in several conversations, I tried to express Israel’s bellicose goals and crimes against humanity, and the rights of the Palestinian people against the occupation and oppression of 70 years, and to answer various questions.
“Unfortunately, some of the answers were handpicked and torn apart without paying attention to the questions. And in some cases, they became the basis of political games.
Keir Starmer will resist pressure from his MPs to back a ceasefire in Gaza on Wednesday in a move that could trigger one of the most significant rebellions of his leadership.
The Labour leader is backing an amendment to the king’s speech that will criticise how Israel has conducted its military campaign. But it will fall short of calling for the ceasefire that nearly a quarter of his parliamentary party wants.
Labour officials have told the party’s MPs to vote for their motion but to abstain on one from the Scottish National party calling for an outright ceasefire, making clear that they will sack any frontbencher who rebels by voting for the SNP amendment.
Sources say Starmer is braced for at least three and as many as 15 frontbenchers to resign over the issue, in what would be the biggest challenge to his internal authority since the early days of his leadership.
Starmer has been under fire over his response to the Middle East crisis since he gave an interview last month in which he appeared to say Israel was within its rights to withhold water and power from Gaza.
The Labour leader hoped he had restored party unity with his speech at the foreign policy thinktank Chatham House last month, in which he urged Israel to obey international law and made clear his support for a free Palestinian state.
He has refused to back a ceasefire, however, despite nearly 40 of his MPs signing a motion calling for one, including several frontbenchers. One, Imran Hussain, resigned, saying a ceasefire was “essential to ending the bloodshed”.
Since then, the death toll in Gaza has exceeded 10,000. The head of Gaza’s biggest hospital said on Tuesday that workers were digging mass graves to bury people who had died amid energy shortages and dwindling supplies.
MPs urged Starmer on Monday to change course and back a ceasefire during a highly charged meeting of the parliamentary party, which one Labour MP called a “bin fire”. Sources said the shadow foreign secretary, David Lammy, struggled to hold the party line in the face of sustained criticism from colleagues.
Meanwhile, Mish Rahman, a member of Labour’s national executive committee, is organising a grassroots campaign to put further pressure on the Labour leader.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Officials said on Tuesday that Starmer was refusing to budge on the ceasefire issue and would instead continue to back a “humanitarian pause” as supported by the US and the British government.
Labour officials spent Tuesday afternoon talking to potential rebels trying to incorporate their concerns into a new amendment without conceding on that central point. One Labour source said the discussions had been “very, very tense”.
Those loyal to Starmer hope the party’s amendment, which will go further in criticising Israeli actions than his recent statements, will give MPs “something to unite around”. One of them, previously critical of the leadership’s handling and communication of its position, said the motion was “much better”.
Pro-Palestine protesters twice interrupted the ceremony for a prestigious Canadian literary award held on Monday night.
The event for the C$100,000 Scotiabank Giller prize was first disrupted when protesters jumped onstage with signs that read “Scotiabank funds genocide”. Event host Rick Mercer attempted to rip one of the signs from a protester’s hands.
Video footage shows another protester standing in the audience area shouting that Scotiabank “currently has a $500m stake in Elbit Systems” and that “Elbit Systems is supplying the Israeli military’s genocide against the Palestinian people”.
Elbit Systems is an Israel-based arms manufacturer that has long been criticised by activists for supplying the Israeli military. In April, American investigative news outlet the Intercept reported that Scotiabank’s stake in the company was estimated to be $500m, making it the largest foreign shareholder.
“We will not be silent any more,” a protester added. The group was quickly escorted out by police and later arrested, Giller spokesperson Robyn Mogil said, according to the Globe and Mail.
The event was also interrupted as the winner’s announcement was being made. Canadian author Sarah Bernstein won the prize for her novel Study for Obedience, which is also shortlisted for this year’s Booker prize. As her name was called, a protester posing as a photographer began shouting, so the organisers repeated the announcement.
The event comes just over a month after Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu declared war after the 7 October Hamas attack which killed 1,200 Israelis. Since then, more than 11,200 Palestinians have been killed, and in the past 10 days, 200,000 people have fled northern Gaza.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Montreal-born Bernstein accepted the prize remotely from her home in the Scottish Highlands, where she had recently had a baby. In her video acceptance speech, she did not acknowledge the protests.
Guests in attendance at the event included Margaret Atwood, who had previously won the prize. Other past winners include Michael Ondaatje, Alice Munro and Esi Edugyan, the chair of the 2023 Booker prize judging panel.
Earlier this month, Canadian poet Rupi Kaur declined an invitation to celebrate Diwali at the White House in protest at the US government’s support of Israel’s attacks on Gaza. In October, several countries and publishing associations pulled out of the Frankfurt book fair after an awards ceremony celebrating Palestinian author Adania Shibli that was due to be held at the fair was called off.
Scotiabank, the Giller prize and Elbit Systems did not respond to the Guardian’s requests for comment.
Protests in support of Palestine have been escalating around Australia, with sit-ins held in capital cities and a student convoy due to arrive in Canberra on Wednesday.
Hundreds are expected to take part in the convoy, organised by Students for Palestine, to protest the response of the Albanese government to the bombardment of Gaza.
Two buses have been organised and many more students are expected to make their way from Sydney to Canberra by road.
“Since parliament is sitting right now, we think it’s essential to protest at the steps of the institution which is failing to take reasonable measures in an attempt to hold Israel to account,” said organiser Amal Naser.
On Monday more than 1,000 protesters travelled from around Australia to take part in a Muslim-led interfaith convoy to Canberra, which featured speakers from various religious communities, as well as the Greens leader, Adam Bandt.
One of the people behind Monday’s convoy, Sheik Wesam Charkawi, a community organiser, academic and imam from Sydney, said he expected more protests in coming weeks.
“The Muslim community is incensed, outraged beyond belief that the government is essentially standing against humanity. And we need to exercise as much pressure on them to change as possible,” Charkawi said.
Cherkawi said this wasn’t about one religion or another, but about sending a message about justice.
“There were people from all faith backgrounds, standing for justice, something the government has completely failed to do,” he said.
Across the country, protests continue to be held in major cities. They include a daily sit-in in front of the Victorian parliament, weekly protests at the Sydney office of the prime minister, Anthony Albanese, and prayer vigils at various locations.
Naser is also one of the organisers of the pro-Palestinian rallies that are in their seventh week in Sydney and attracted around 50,000 people last Sunday.
“This is an anti-war movement, and as the violent destruction of Gaza and the displacement of its people continue, more and more Australians will be jumping in,” she said.
It comes as the Hamas-run health ministry in Gaza reported that 11,240 Palestinians have been killed in the invasion so far, including 4,630 children.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Israel launched its invasion of the coastal strip after a Hamas raid killed 1,200 Israelis on 7 October. More than 200 people were taken hostage and are being held by Hamas in Gaza. The Israeli government says it will not enter a ceasefire until the hostages are returned.
The Albanese government has stopped short of calling for a ceasefire, with foreign affairs minister, Penny Wong, saying on Sunday “we all want to take the next steps towards a ceasefire, but it cannot be one-sided” – comments opposition leader Peter Dutton branded “reckless”.
Naser and her co-organisers believe Labor’s response doesn’t go far enough.
Other student actions are being held across Australia, including a planned student strike on Thursday in Victoria as well as sit-ins and protests at various universities in Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Protests are being held against Israeli shipping company Zim at Port Botany in Sydney and at the Port of Melbourne, where there is an ongoing presence.
Paddy Gibson, an organiser at Trade Unionists for Palestine, said workers were keeping an eye out for future Zim arrivals in order to facilitate snap protests.
“Our intention is to disrupt the businesses, and we’re calling for a boycott of Zim shipping,” Gibson said.
Multiple unions have signed a statement in support of Palestine, including the Maritime Union of Australia Sydney Branch and the construction division of the CFMEU.
Relatives of hostages taken by Hamas on its 7 October attack on southern Israel have begun a march from Tel Aviv to Benjamin Netanyahu’s office in Jerusalem.
At the start of the 40-mile route, families gathered outside the Tel Aviv Museum Square and fought back tears as they made impassioned pleas for the release of their loved ones held captive in Gaza for 39 days.
Hamas militants stormed southern Israeli towns and kibbutzim on 7 October, killing an estimated 1,200 people and taking more than 240 hostages.
Haran’s father, Avshalom, 66, and his aunt, Lilach Kipnis, and uncle, Eviatar Kipnis, were killed after Hamas stormed the Be’eri kibbutz.
His mother, Shoshan, 67, and sister, Adi Shoham, along with her husband, Tal, their son, Naveh, eight, and daughter Yahel, three, were abducted. His aunt and her 12-year-old daughter were also kidnapped.
The families aim to march between the two cities over five days, camping in tents along the way and arriving outside Netanyahu’s office on Saturday.
“For the past 39 days, we’ve been doing everything we can, and I decided I can’t sit around any more. I can’t just stay at home and sit and be on my phone and on my computer, I need to do something,” Haran told the Guardian.
“We don’t know if the hostages have food. We don’t know if they have water. We don’t know how they’re being taken care of. We don’t even know if they are alive.
Shelly Shem-Tov spoke of her fears for her son, Omer, 21, who was abducted from the Supernova music festival near the Gaza border. “I don’t know if he’s eating or if he sees the sun or if they are beating him,” she said.
As the march left the plaza, informally renamed “Hostages Square”, the families chanted the Hebrew word achshav, meaning “now”.
Erez and Adriana Adar in T-shirts bearing images of family members taken hostage.
Holding up posters of their loved ones, each had their own devastating story to tell. Erez Adar, 63, wore a T-shirt bearing the smiling face of his 85-year-old mother, Yafa, who was abducted from the Nir Oz kibbutz. The T-shirt of his wife, Adriana, featured her nephew, Tamir, 38.
“He’s a father of two little boys, aged seven and four, and we want all of them back alive now. Tamir’s children are alone, waiting and praying. They don’t understand why their father is not with them,” Adriana said.
Noam Alon’s partner, Inbair Haiman, was abducted from the Supernova music festival.
Reports have surfaced in recent days about negotiations between Israel and Hamas. Noam Alon, who said he had been living in a nightmare since his partner, Inbair Haiman, 27, was snatched from the music festival, appeared encouraged by the news.
“I want the government to do everything possible to bring them home. I will march to Jerusalem but I hope there’ll be a deal before then,” he said.
The Biden administration is increasingly seeking ways to restrain the Israeli military in an effort to slow the civilian toll and limit the risk of a wider conflict, while it faces a rising level of internal dissent over its Middle East policy.
In a letter presented to Biden and his cabinet on Tuesday, more than 500 political appointees and staff members from about 40 agencies across the administration criticised the extent of the president’s support for Israel in its war in Gaza.
The letter denounced the Hamas killing of 1,200 Israelis, mostly civilians, on 7 October, but called on Biden to rein in Israel’s military campaign in Gaza, in which the death toll is now above 11,000, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.
“We call on President Biden to urgently demand a cease-fire; and to call for de-escalation of the current conflict by securing the immediate release of the Israeli hostages and arbitrarily detained Palestinians; the restoration of water, fuel, electricity and other basic services; and the passage of adequate humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip,” the letter said, according to New York Times.
The letter, whose signatories are anonymous, reflects mounting unease among US officials about Biden’s policy in the first weeks of the war of emphasising Israel’s right to defend itself in public, while trying to restrain its retaliation in private. The critics have argued that this approach has not been effective.
More than 1,000 staffers at the US Agency for International Development (Usaid) signed an open letter calling on the administration to make better use of its leverage to limit the civilian death toll, and scores of state department staff have argued for a change in policy through the state department’s formal dissent channel, reportedly on three occasions.
The secretary of state, Antony Blinken, takes the dissent seriously, his officials say. Discussions have been encouraged at foreign missions around the world soliciting feedback.
US officials say the administration’s call for restraint, and emphasis on the need to limit the civilian death toll, has been conveyed repeatedly to Israel, and the Pentagon has been giving the Israel Defense Forces advice on how to target Hamas in Gaza while minimising “collateral damage”.
The officials say that there was support within the Israeli government after 7 October for a pre-emptive attack on Hezbollah in Lebanon, to blunt the threat of a second front, before launching a ground offensive into Gaza. The fact there was no such pre-emptive strike, they say, was due in part to US persuasion, thus fending off the risk, for now, of a wider regional conflict. Hezbollah itself, US officials believe, has no interest in escalating the conflict, and is firing just enough rockets across Israel’s northern border to maintain its credibility as a symbol of resistance against Israel.
US officials have meanwhile stiffened the tone of their remarks on Gaza. Biden said on Monday that hospitals there “must be protected”.
“My hope and expectation is that there will be less intrusive action relative to hospitals,” Biden told reporters.
“We continue to have discussions at all levels, including President Biden with Prime Minister Netanyahu, to urge Israel to continue taking every possible measure to protect civilians,” the national security adviser, Jake Sullivan said on the same day. Sullivan said the US was also focused on negotiations to free hostages being held by Hamas, as many as 10 of whom are thought to be Americans who have yet to be accounted for. On Monday he met some of the hostages’ family members.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
The Usaid administrator, Samantha Power, stiffened the rhetoric further on Tuesday, saying: “Israel’s restoration of communications, electricity, water lines, and fuel to Gaza is imperative.
“And even as Israel defends its people, it is imperative that the IDF adhere to international humanitarian law,” Power told a meeting of an advisory board created to fund Israeli-Palestinian partnerships.
US officials pointed out that the tougher tone was in response to events on the ground, as well as US internal dissent. Senior diplomats argue that the high level of vocal dissent is in part a generational phenomenon, and that the current crop of young foreign service officers feels more entitled to have a say over policy than their predecessors.
They also point out that such levels of dissent are not unprecedented. The state department was in constant turmoil during the Trump administration, especially over its early efforts to establish a “Muslim ban” on immigrants. There were three high-level state department resignations over the Iraq war, but there has only been one so far over the Gaza war: Josh Paul, from the political-military bureau.
Administration officials also point to the limits to outrage in the Arab world. Neither Bahrain nor the United Arab Emirates has renounced their Abraham accords normalisation agreements with Israel, and Saudi Arabia has insisted it is still interested in pursuing one of its own.
Lister said that the adjustment in US administration tone had in part been a result of Biden’s own initial instincts being reined in by his own officials.
Nasser Hamid Said and his family spent five weeks trapped in the city of Jabalia in northern Gaza before finally making it across the border to safety last Monday. They returned to their home in west London on Sunday but are still suffering the trauma of what they experienced.
Hamid Said, 52, still dreams he is in the conflict that has claimed the lives of members of his family. His sons are terrified by the sound of fireworks and the family is trying to forget weeks of Israeli bombardment, surviving on scarce food supplies, dirtied water and without electricity.
While the family is among the hundreds of foreign nationals who have escaped Israel’s airstrikes and the spiralling humanitarian crisis, more than 2 million people in Gaza, nearly half of whom are children, remain under siege after Hamas militants killed at least 1,200 people and abducted 240 hostages in a surprise attack on 7 October.
The UK government and Labour party are facing mounting pressure to back a ceasefire and calls for international laws to be upheld in the war that has killed 11,000 Palestinians and become the bloodiest chapter in the 75-year-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
On Monday, calls for a ceasefire were echoed by the International Centre of Justice for Palestinians, who wrote Rishi Sunak on behalf of the Palestinian community, criticising the government’s inadequate calls for “humanitarian pauses”.
When Hamid Said and his family first attempted to leave, their car was shot at by Israeli soldiers, he recalled. With only water, they walked south towards the border, as he shielded his sons, aged 8 and 12, from the surrounding dead bodies. They feared being shot by Israeli soldiers as they walked three minutes ahead of other family members so that an airstrike would not kill them all.
Faras Abuwarda’s family were visiting loved ones in Gaza before the conflict began. Abuwarda, a legal consultant, travelled from London to Egypt twice to try to get his family out. Their names were finally included on a list of British nationals permitted to leave Gaza at the Rafah crossing last week and his wife and five children – two of whom are autistic – walked three hours south, before taking a taxi to Khan Younis.
Abuwarda was told by government officials that the air fare from Cairo to London could be lent to him in exchange for his passport, which would be returned once the money was repaid. He waited for officials to call him to book the tickets but no call came. He then decided to borrow $1,200 from friends instead.
He said they received rough treatment from government officials at the hotel in Cairo. “We did not get any words of solidarity, or actually care [for] the family at all,” he said. At the hotel, the family of seven was split into two rooms each with a single double bed, and Abuwarda slept on the floor.
Abuwarda and his family are now safe in London. His children have returned to school and he is preparing to return to work after taking sick leave, but he constantly thinks of his family left behind in Jabalia and is deeply critical of the UK government’s failure to help Palestinians.
Midnight I am wide awake. Not because of fear, exhaustion or the lack of a moment of peace we have been experiencing for more than a month now, but because I can’t stop thinking about the phone call I had last night. My friend lost her brother. She was devastated, I tried to talk to her but couldn’t. I was able to reach friends around her. “She is grateful that they found the body of her brother in one piece, unlike the others whose bodies were cut into several parts,” one told me.
Is this what we’ve come to? Praying that we die in one piece? Has dying in brutal circumstances become the inevitable destiny of Gazans?
I remember a story told in my mother’s family. A story about two women who had a feud for more than 40 years about which of their sons is buried in a certain grave. Both bodies were cut into pieces and till this day the truth is not known. Each of the ladies would go to the graveyard and mourn her lost child. “But why does it matter?” I remember asking.
“It is all that matters,” an old neighbour answered. He said knowing their loved ones were buried in dignified manner, in a known spot, makes them feel sure that they are in a “safe place, taken care of”, and it helps them to let go and start the journey of moving on.
One of the two ladies died past the age of 85, the other one is still alive to this day. I am sure that the one who died is no longer angry with the other mother, because now she is with her son, in a much better place – away from graveyards, away from death, away from sadness, away from the cruelty of this world. She is hugging him, and he is very happy, because he is finally safe with his mother.
I wonder how many decades it will take a lot of Gazans to process the agony of not knowing where their loved ones are buried, or the fact that they couldn’t have a final look at them, hold their hands and say goodbye.
8.30am He was not my friend, but some people just grow to become a part of your life. He was the head waiter of my favourite cafe. I had known him since I was a university student when the restaurant was very small and not well known. With time, he became the symbol of the place. When he was not around, people would ask for him. Some would only go when he was working. The restaurant expanded and he would move from one branch to the other and people would choose to dine where he was working.
He had beautiful green eyes. Everyone loved him. He listened to his customers; in a way he was a kind of therapist. He would give advice, guidance and support. If he recommended a certain dish, we would order it immediately. If he advised you not to order your favourite meal, we would trust him.
Two years ago, his eldest son graduated high school. He was very happy, he told us that he will study journalism. He mentioned that, in addition to him loving what he does, he works very hard, many shifts, just to secure a good life for his family.
I am walking in the street when my friend calls me and tells me he has been killed. I stop walking. Not him … no, no, no. I stay silent in the middle of the street.
Though he was not a friend of mine, he was a part of my life, a part of the many happy memories I have lived. I wish I could have protected him. I wish I could have kept him and his loved ones safe.
I want to cry, yet I keep silent and continue walking.
9am Today is cloudy, which is good for those on the street since they won’t be burnt by the sun. However, this means that no one will be able to charge their devices. The only source of energy these days is solar, and just a few families or shops have solar power, so all the neighbours and evacuated families go there to charge their devices, to have connection with the world, to remind themselves they are still alive.
Today, we couldn’t charge our devices. Another day to forget we are still alive.
10am I am running out of one of the medicines I take. I had good amounts with me, but after a month, most of it is gone. I go to the pharmacy to buy more. The pharmacist has only six tablets left. I thank him and leave without taking them. He advises me to take them, but I refuse. I want two or three packs, not a couple of pills.
I start my journey looking for my medicine, I walk for almost four hours. I enter every single pharmacy on the way. Sixteen pharmacies, none has my medicine. I admit that it is my mistake, I should have bought extra since the whole situation started, but I did not think it will continue this long. Nobody did.
2pm I go back to the first pharmacy, hoping they still have the six pills. They do, I take them, and leave.
The guy smiles shyly, and continues his work. I remember my grandmother telling us that her grandmother had to marry at the age of 14 to a bread-maker just to be able to feed her family.
We are not there yet, or at least I am privileged not to see the misery others are living in. But I don’t think we are far away from people doing things against their desires just to secure some bread.
7pm Ahmad joins us in the room. He tells us today he saw his friend who is an artist. He was in the street, boiling some water to make tea to sell. His friend had no gas canister, instead, he was burning wood. Ahmad was surprised to see the man using the frames of his own portraits to burn. “I need to make some money, I have a family to feed,” the friend told him.
Even wood is becoming scarce, and some are selling it to be used to boil water and in cooking. What else is left to be sold? Air?
9pm My sister has rarely left the room since we evacuated. In normal times, she is a social butterfly and very active in the community. Since the whole situation started, she has only gone out when it is very important. Today, she decided to take the young girls for a walk. She took the eldest granddaughter and her female cousin. “We are suffocated,” they had told her the previous day.
At night, she tells me how happy the girls were. She says they had the biggest smiles over their faces, glad to be out after such a long time. They did not do anything special, she says, just walked, and bought some hair scrunchies.
But my sister is sad that a big deal of their talk was about this friend who lost her house, the other who lost family members, and the ones who evacuated and they have lost contact with. “Is this the childhood they deserve?” she asks.
Not only little girls, but women in general face double the suffering. During these times, men usually get the chance to go out to get necessary stuff while women find themselves stuck in the house with many other families, or at schools with little to no space. At the schools, I would see men standing or sitting outside to get some air, but would rarely see a woman.
I wish I had big pockets, to keep my loved ones, my friends and the animals safe. I wish I could keep the waiters, the artists, the students, the street sellers and the teachers safe. I wish I could keep the streets and the kindergartens and the restaurants and every single place that witnessed a happy memory safe. And most of all, I wish I could be held tight in someone else’s big pocket … to feel safe.
s the war on Gaza enters its second month, in Tel Aviv it has become routine to hear the sirens every other day and to run for shelter as Hamas rockets target the city. I do so with my two small daughters: it is always a terrible experience for them, and so for me also. As a parent, I do my best to shield them from the reality of the war and maintain normality.
But it isn’t always possible. This week I took them to the public library to return their books, and in the square outside there was a vigil by the families of those Israelis kidnapped and taken to Gaza on 7 October, calling on the government to negotiate for their return. As we passed through, my youngest daughter, aged seven, looked curiously at the pictures of the child hostages and asked me who they were. I never want to be untruthful to them, and I try to to explain the world to my daughters in an honest way. Yet the dreadful reality of small children being taken from their parents and being held captive – and who, in fact, may no longer be alive – is so appalling that I struggled for the right words.
Later that day, I thought about the Palestinian fathers in the Gaza Strip with daughters the same age as mine. Surely for them there isn’t even the slightest chance of maintaining normality for their children amid the bombing campaign launched by my government. Surely every day consists of fear. Fear for their lives and their loved ones, of running out of basic necessities, of having to evacuating their homes and leave behind not only their belongings, but also the daily routines that shape their lives – school, work, friends.
What I have described is the reality of Palestinian and Israeli life. Since 7 October every so often I tell my daughters that I’ll be out this afternoon “visiting a friend”. Then, I go to a funeral or a Shivah – the traditional Jewish mourning ceremony – to comfort friends who lost family members in the Hamas terror attack on their homes.
Since 7 October, there has been a wave of repression directed towards the Arab-Palestinian minority in Israel. My organisation, Standing Together, a grassroots political movement of Jewish and Palestinian citizens of Israel, has set up a hotline to help the thousands of Arab workers dismissed from their jobs, and the many Arab students facing disciplinary charges in their universities. Some were accused of “supporting Hamas terrorism” simply because they “liked” an Instagram post that highlighted the human suffering in Gaza.
While war rages in Gaza, there is also a battle in Israel for the character of our society. That is why we’ve formed the Jewish-Arab Solidarity Network with more than 12 local groups in cities across the country, which works on the ground to combat racism, promote peace and equality, and bring Jewish and Palestinian citizens together. Our activists erase racist graffiti (replacing “Death to Arabs” with “Equality for all”); put up bilingual posters that read “Only peace will bring security”; and support Jewish and Arab families whose members have been injured or killed in the war.
At times there is state repression, and some of our activists have been detained by the police. But, nonetheless, this movement grows. Last week we started a series of Jewish-Arab solidarity rallies, with 700 attending in Haifa, 300 in Tel Aviv, 350 in Baqa al-Gharbiyye and 150 in Abu Ghosh. While warmongering government ministers dehumanise Palestinians, provoke racist violence and plan for a war that will last months, our message is that there is an alternative. We are demanding an Israeli-Palestinian peace that respects the rights of both people to independence, security, justice and freedom. This means an end to the occupation, and the creation of an independent Palestinian state, according to UN resolutions, as well as full equality within Israel for the Arab-Palestinian citizens, both as individuals and as a national minority. This is the only path forward for securing the safety and wellbeing of Israelis and Palestinians alike.
iving in Gaza, we wake up feeling grateful every morning to have survived for one more day. For more than 30 days, we have lived surrounded by death, devastation and desperation. To say that the situation is exceptional does not begin to describe the reality of nonstop Israeli bombardments, huge missile strikes from air, land, and sea, and the collective struggle to stay alive. Nowhere in the Gaza Strip is safe. More than 11,000 people have been killed – over 4,500 of them children.
When I hear the phrase “humanitarian pause”, it sounds like a farce. How can it be that when we are in the worst imaginable crisis, some leaders call for a pause and not a ceasefire?
The majority of vital resources and infrastructure throughout the Gaza Strip have been targeted by Israeli bombardments and destroyed beyond repair. There is no water, no food, no medicine, no connectivity and no fuel. People survive off scraps that are quickly running out, and the stores are empty. Money is meaningless when there is nothing left to buy. Tens of thousands of people shelter wherever they can because 1.5 million people have been forcibly displaced, including my own family, and have had to leave their homes. The list of what we do not have goes on. This is no life.
For those of us who are here, under constant fire, we see those massacred by bombs die fast and the survivors die slowly. With the bare trickle of aid that Israel has allowed through the Rafah crossing from Egypt, there is hardly enough water for 5% of us.
A “humanitarian” pause will only prolong our suffering. A humanitarian pause is nothing but a small bandage on an open wound and a way to draw this horror out longer. There is nothing humanitarian about starving, being made homeless, living in rubble. When the fighting resumes, we are forced to wonder: what good is a humanitarian pause for aid if the killing doesn’t stop? If you want to give aid and be humanitarian then the killing must stop, through an immediate ceasefire.
It won’t help the thousands of civilians, children, men and women who have already been killed, but it will prevent more deaths. Truly, the only humanitarian action for those of us still alive, to be able to survive, is an immediate ceasefire. And then, once the assaults have stopped, we can start going through the rubble of our homes, treating our wounded, burying our dead, and beginning to rebuild our lives.
he Downingtown area school district, the sixth-largest school district in Pennsylvania, claims to be “a twenty-first century district with the idealistic warmth and charm of a small town”. The district’s diversity, equity and inclusion program says it “works to create a culture where every individual can feel included and thrive”. And this charming and inclusive school district has also just trammeled on my free speech rights. I’ve been cancelled.
Here’s the story. Last March, the district approached me about offering a virtual event supporting their diversity, equity and inclusion program. Initially, I was asked to present a program on Arab Americans, but in May, the district proposed changing the focus to supporting refugee students and their families. This is a topic I have previously presented on and one that is close to my heart, as my family has long been involved in various aspects of refugee resettlement. We agreed on the details, I sent them a headshot and bio, and the district began advertising the event on their website on 1 November.
Six days later, they cancelled it.
Well, I saw some of those emails, and they are in fact outrageous and fallacious assaults on my character, all because of my support for Palestinians in the face of Israel’s extremely brutal assault on Gaza, which according to Palestinian estimates has now killed over 11,000 people. One parent claimed to have found “several extreme antisemitic posts, videos and full out hate speech that he has very recently stated publicly”.
Excuse me, what? The writer of that letter provided no evidence for these scurrilous allegations because there is none. A recent post of mine on Twitter/X that has among my highest number of views this month was in response to a vile act of anti-Jewish graffiti in the Bronx. My post reads: “The only way we can free Palestine and free ourselves is to fight *all* forms of bigotry, including antisemitism.” Hate speech, indeed.
I have, of course, been critical of the state of Israel (may I remind you, once again, that the scheduled event was not about Israel?). Many people are critical of the state of Israel. As Israel is a state among nations, it must bear criticism of its actions the same way that every other nation must bear criticism of its actions. Labelling all criticism of Israel as antisemitic, as is often done, is an attempt to elide Israel’s responsibility in the world, impugn the character of the critic, and draw attention away from very real acts of antisemitism that are happening, which puts Jewish people further at risk.
And that’s the point. If you are Palestinian, Arab or Muslim in the US today, or someone who is an ally of those groups, your speech is uniquely patrolled and your very right to speak is unfairly limited, if not banned outright. After the Anti-Defamation League and the Louis D Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law issued an open letter calling on university presidents to investigate pro-Palestinian student groups, the American Civil Liberties Union responded with its own letter, which “unequivocally urges universities to reject calls to investigate, disband, or penalize pro-Palestinian student groups for exercising their free speech rights”.
This month Barnard College cancelled a scheduled event with the Palestinian writer Mohammed El-Kurd at the last moment. Brandeis University became the first private university to ban the student group Students for Justice in Palestine, in what the free speech organization Fire labels “a brazen act of viewpoint discrimination”. Columbia University suspended its chapters of Students for Justice in Palestine and Jewish Voice for Peace for the rest of the semester, alleging that the groups “repeatedly violated University policies related to holding campus events”.
And this is not even to ask why Tlaib is singled out for “calling for the destruction of the state of Israel” (which she in fact did not do), while the Ohio representative Max Miller suffers no particular consequences for telling Fox News that Palestine is “a territory that’s probably about to get eviscerated and go away shortly, because we’re going to turn that into a parking lot”.
It may seem misplaced to focus on free speech while the emergency in Gaza is so acute and Israeli bombs continue to kill Palestinian civilians. But they’re related phenomena. Both depend on dehumanizing the other for their power. And one of the quickest ways to dehumanize anyone is to not allow them to speak for themselves.
There certainly is objectionable speech out there, but the answer to speech you don’t like must always be to engage more speech, not to employ lies, half-truths, and wilful distortions to shut down someone else’s speech.
Palestinians, Arabs and Muslims are quickly silenced and easily dehumanized today, whether we are in Congress, on campus or at Zoom events. But the people who seek to silence us simply cannot be the arbiters of what is acceptable speech. More importantly, I don’t have to prove my humanity to those who seek to deny me mine, nor will I, even in a charming small town.
Israel’s military has said it was carrying out a raid against Hamas in al-Shifa hospital early on Wednesday, conducting what it called a “precise and targeted operation against Hamas in a specified area” of the medical complex.
Less than an hour earlier, around 1am local time, a Gaza health ministry spokesperson said Israel had told officials in the territory that it would raid the hospital complex “in the coming minutes”. Al-Shifa is Gaza’s biggest hospital.
Dr Munir al-Bursh, director-general of the Gaza health ministry, told Al Jazeera television that Israeli forces had raided the western side of the sprawling site. “There are big explosions and dust entered the areas where we are. We believe an explosion occurred inside the hospital,” Bursh said.
The fate of al-Shifa has become a focus of international alarm because of worsening conditions in the facility in recent days with global calls for a humanitarian ceasefire after five weeks of an Israeli assault on Gaza.
There are between 600 and 650 inpatients at al-Shifa, as well as 200 to 500 health workers, and about 1,500 displaced people seeking shelter there, according to information shared with the World Health Organization, which was posted on Sunday on X.
In a statement, the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said: “Based on intelligence information and an operational necessity, IDF forces are carrying out a precise and targeted operation against Hamas in a specified area in the Shifa hospital”.
The operation unfolded after the military seized broader control of northern Gaza on Tuesday, including capturing the territory’s legislature building and its police headquarters, in gains that carried high symbolic value.
Israel has claimed Hamas has a command centre underneath al-Shifa and uses the hospital and tunnels beneath it to conceal military operations and to hold hostages. Hamas denies the claim.
Israeli army spokesperson Lt Col Peter Lerner told CNN the hospital and compound were for Hamas “a central hub of their operations, perhaps even the beating heart and maybe even a centre of gravity”.
The US said on Tuesday that its own intelligence supported Israel’s conclusions.
Hamas said on Wednesday that US announcement had in effect given a “green light” for Israel to raid the hospital. The group said it held Israel and US president Joe Biden fully responsible for the operation.
Gaza’s health ministry was quoted by Palestinian news agency Shebab as saying that “dozens of soldiers” had entered the al-Shifa emergency department building, and that tanks had entered the complex.
Hours later, Gaza health ministry spokesperson Ashraf al-Qidra told Al Jazeera: “The occupation army is now in the basement, and searching the basement. They are inside the complex, shooting and carrying out bombings”.
The Guardian has not been able to independently verify the claims.
Israeli forces have waged fierce street battles against Hamas fighters over the past 10 days before advancing into the centre of Gaza City and surrounding al Shifa.
Israel has sworn to destroy Hamas in retaliation for the militants’ cross-border assault into Israel on 7 October. Israel says Hamas killed 1,200 people in the rampage and took more than 240 hostage.
Palestinians trapped in the hospital dug a mass grave on Tuesday to bury patients who died and no plan was in place to evacuate babies despite Israel announcing an offer to send portable incubators, Qidra said. He said there were about 100 bodies decomposing inside and no way to get them out.
UN Secretary-General António Guterres was deeply disturbed by the “dramatic loss of life” in the hospitals, his spokesperson said. “In the name of humanity, the secretary-general calls for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire,” the spokesperson told reporters.
Medical officials in Hamas-run Gaza say more than 11,000 people are confirmed dead from Israeli strikes, about 40% of them children, and countless others trapped under rubble.
Around two-thirds of Gaza’s 2.3 million people have been made homeless, unable to escape the territory where food, fuel, fresh water and medical supplies are running out.
Israeli defence officials said they have agreed to allow some fuel shipments into the Gaza Strip for humanitarian operations. It was the first time that Israel has allowed fuel into the besieged territory since Hamas’ bloody cross-border invasion on 7 October.
Israel’s move on al-Shifa hospital has raised questions about how it would interpret international laws on protection of medical facilities and the thousands of displaced people sheltering there, UN human rights officials have said.
Hospitals are protected buildings under international humanitarian law. But allegations that Shifa is also being used for military purposes complicated the situation because that would also breach international law, UN officials have said.
Medical units used for acts harmful to the enemy, and which have ignored a warning to stop doing so, lose their special protection under international law.
Omar Shakir, Israel and Palestine director for Human Rights Watch, said before Israel’s raid that even if Hamas was proven to be using hospitals to conduct military operations, international law required that effective warnings be given before attacks.
Israel said in its statement on Wednesday that it had given Gaza authorities 12 hours to cease military activities within the hospital. “Unfortunately, it did not,” the military statement said.
The winter rains have finally arrived in Gaza, bringing new challenges for the besieged exclave’s 2.3 million people who have already suffered through six weeks of war between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas.
After a warm and dry autumn, a Mediterranean thunderstorm broke across the 25-mile by 7-mile (41km x 12km) strip early on Tuesday morning. The rain washed away the grey rubble dust from airstrikes that clings to buildings in every neighbourhood, and dispersed the smoke and fire from the most recent overnight bombings. Water consumption in Gaza has fallen by 90% since the conflict started, according to the latest data from the UN, and many families rushed outside to enjoy the respite from the unseasonable humidity.
“It cleared the smoke from the air and the sky was beautiful … Today is a new day,” Ghassan Abu Sitta, a Palestinian-British surgeon, said in a post on X.
Initial relief at the rainfall quickly dissipated, however, as children began to shiver in wet clothes, while makeshift accommodation flooded and churned-up roads and open land turned to mud.
Two-thirds of Gaza’s population are estimated to have fled their homes due to intense bombing by Israeli forces and a three-week-old ground invasion that has killed an estimated 11,200 people, according to the Hamas-run local health ministry. The war, sparked by Hamas attacks on Israeli communities on 7 October, is already the bloodiest in the 75-year Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
“My kids enjoyed the rain at first, my daughter went out to wash her hair,” said Saleh al-Omran, from the central town of Deir al-Balah, who has moved his family to his wife’s sister’s house after their home was damaged by an airstrike. “We don’t have any way to heat the house. It is getting cold,” he added.
An estimated 600,000 people are sheltering in schools and other public buildings in the southern half of Gaza after fleeing when the Israeli army ordered those living in the northern part of the strip to move south to “safe zones”. Those areas have still been bombed, and the UN agency for Palestinian refugees said on Tuesday that it was struggling to provide basic services. Its fuel supplies may run out by Wednesday, the agency said, forcing a halt to most aid operations and the supply of food and medicine through Egypt’s Rafah crossing, Gaza’s only link to the outside world.
According to an Associated Press reporter, people at a tented camp outside a hospital in Deir al-Balah on Tuesday struggled to make their way through muddy conditions as they stretched plastic tarps over flimsy tents.
Disruption to sewage pumping and water shortages have already caused a rise in waterborne diseases, bacterial infections and diarrhoea among infants, the WHO spokesperson Margaret Harris told reporters in Geneva. “Rain will just add further to the suffering,” she said.
More storms are expected over the next week or so as temperatures drop to 17C and winter sets in. The weather is also likely to affect the fighting as mud hinders the movement of Israeli weaponry.
One man at a UN shelter told Al Jazeera that the humanitarian situation was becoming even more urgent. “If our children do not die from war, they will die from the cold of winter and hunger,” he said.
The Football Association has suspended a council member who said “Adolf Hitler would be proud of Benjamin Netanyahu”. Wasim Haq, who joined the FA as a BAME Football Communities Representative in 2019, became the subject of an investigation after a post on social media about Israel’s war with Hamas led him to be accused of antisemitism.
There was increased pressure for action to be taken against Haq, who has denied being antisemitic, after the Lawn Tennis Association sacked him as an independent councillor on Monday. The FA confirmed on Tuesday that he had been suspended pending the outcome of an investigation. Haq is also being investigated by England Golf, where he holds a role similar to that at the FA.
How do I sign up for sport breaking news alerts?
The FA had responded to initial inquiries by saying that Haq had deleted the post and apologised for causing offence. But Lord Wolfson, who chairs the FA’s Football Regulatory Committee, called on English football’s governing body to take a stronger approach. The FA launched an investigation and on Sunday evening described the post as “unacceptable” and “highly offensive”.
Haq added: “My tweet was directly in relation to comparing two individuals who in my eyes have caused contemporary and historical irreparable harm to victimised communities on both sides of this tragic conflict.
Kick It Out has urged everyone in football to be cautious when using social media to comment on events in the Middle East. “Emotions are heightened and words can have unintended impacts causing hurt, anger, fear and deep distress,” it said.
The British government appears to have withdrawn an assertion made by the former prime minister, Boris Johnson, that the international criminal court has no jurisdiction in Israel, amid a wider western shift to more pointed criticism of the way Israel is conducting its campaign to remove Hamas from Gaza.
Mitchell has been challenged repeatedly to say if he agreed withJohnson, who as prime minister in April 2021 wrote to the Conservative Friends of Israel: “We do not accept that the ICC have jurisdiction given Israel is not a signatory to the Rome statute, and Palestine is not a sovereign state.” Johnson added that an ICC inquiry into war crimes was a partial and prejudicial attack on a friend and ally of the UK.
The shadow foreign secretary, David Lammy, said the Labour party recognised the ICC’s jurisdiction.
Mitchell started to spell out sharper UK criticisms of Israel’s conduct while also asserting its right to self-defence and criticising Hamas for using citizens as human shields.
He said: “We have been clear that all parties to a conflict must afford civilians the protection that is their right under international law. That includes respecting the sanctity of hospitals, so that doctors can continue to care for the sick and injured.
He quoted Robert Mardini, the director general of the International Committee of the Red Cross, saying he had made clear that Gaza hospitals, treating hundreds of injured people, could not be targeted under any circumstances. Mitchell said the ICRC was the guardian of international humanitarian law and the Geneva conventions.
Mitchell’s remarks build on a foreign policy speech by the prime minister, Rishi Sunank, in London on Monday in which he said too many civilians had died.
Sunak also warned Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, that the Palestinian Authority must have a role in future governance of the Gaza Strip. Sunak said the UK would “provide the serious, practical and enduring support needed to bolster the Palestinian Authority because they are the best route to sweep away the terrible scourge of Hamas and all it has wrought”.
Like the US president, Joe Biden, Mitchell said the UK government called for “less intrusive action” at al-Shifa hospital, saying the scenes on television were horrific.
Another cause for disappointment – and the context for my recent article in The Times – has been your failure to rise to the challenge posed by the increasingly vicious antisemitism and extremism displayed on our streets since Hamas’s terrorist atrocities of 7 October.
I have become hoarse urging you to consider legislation to ban the hate marches and help stem the rising tide of racism, intimidation and terrorist glorification threatening community cohesion. Britain is at a turning point in our history and faces a threat of radicalisation and extremism in a way not seen for 20 years. I regret to say that your response has been uncertain, weak, and lacking in the qualities of leadership that this country needs. Rather than fully acknowledge the severity of this threat, your team disagreed with me for weeks that the law needed changing.
How damaging is Suella Braverman's departure letter?
Braverman tells Sunak to 'change course urgently', saying 'your plan is not working'
Suella Braverman has launched an astonishing personal attack on Rishi Sunak, describing the prime minister as weak and dishonest and claiming he reneged on promises to push through a series of controversial policy pledges. In a brutal three-page letter published a day after she was sacked as home secretary, Braverman warned Sunak that she now intends to spearhead a Tory rebellion over the government’s Rwanda plan. “Someone needs to be honest: your plan is not working, we have endured record election defeats, your resets have failed and we are running out of time. You need to change course urgently,” she wrote.
In her letter, Braverman said that Sunak had failed to prepare a credible backup plan and had ignored her suggestion – believed to be emergency legislation to change domestic law so that the government could ignore the ruling and the flights could go ahead. “I can only surmise that this is because you have no appetite for doing what is necessary, and therefore no real intention of fulfilling your pledge to the British people,” she added.
Dozens of Conservative MPs are poised to demand that the government quits the European convention on human rights, a move resisted by senior cabinet ministers, if the UK’s highest court rules against sending asylum seekers to Rwanda on Wednesday. Home Office insiders said the government had no plan B in the event of losing in the supreme court, suggesting that ministers were “panicked” over the potential outcome. They warned it was highly unlikely that flights to Rwanda would be able to take off before February even if they won.
Rightwing Conservative MPs have accused Rishi Sunak of abandoning voters who brought the party to power in 2019 amid a backlash against his reshuffle and polling suggesting public opposition to David Cameron’s return. Unhappiness with Sunak’s reshuffle, particularly the sacking of Suella Braverman as home secretary, prompted a group of predominantly “red wall” MPs to issue a scathing rebuke of the prime minister and the pro-European credentials of his new foreign secretary.
Keir Starmer will resist pressure from his MPs to back a ceasefire in Gaza on Wednesday in a move that could trigger one of the most significant rebellions of his leadership. The Labour leader is backing an amendment to the king’s speech that will criticise how Israel has conducted its military campaign. But it will fall short of calling for the ceasefire that nearly a quarter of his parliamentary party wants.
After Rishi Sunak’s cabinet reshuffle, men hold the top four positions in government for the first time since 2010. Liz Truss’s ministry was notable for initially having no white men serving in the great offices of state for the first time in British political history, with Kwasi Kwarteng becoming the first black chancellor. Downing Street said on Tuesday that it was not focused on “tick-box diversity” and the prime minister was “clear that its actions and tangible impacts on the public that matters”. Sunak’s press secretary said women were getting senior jobs elsewhere in government, and a lot of women had risen up the ranks.
The UK’s business and trade secretary has signed a deal to increase trade with Florida, the British government’s latest pact with a single American state as it awaits a broader, post-Brexit US free trade agreement. The memorandum of understanding, signed on Tuesday by Kemi Badenoch and the Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, is the seventh deal between the UK and individual US states. The UK said the deal would focus on space, financial technology, artificial intelligence and legal services.
The UK is being pressed to help provide more evidence against suspects involved in protests outside the Indian high commission in London in March. The pressure came as the new UK foreign secretary, David Cameron, met the Indian external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, in one of his first bilateral meetings. Jaishankar is backing demands from the Indian National Investigation Agency (NIA) for further cooperation over those involved in the violence. The police handling of the demonstration and its subsequent investigation has become a raw nerve in Indian-British relations, but both sides deny it is acting as a brake on the Indian-British free trade talks.
That’s it from me, Tom Ambrose, and indeed the UK politics live blog for today. Thanks for following along.
The UK is being pressed to help provide more evidence against suspects involved in protests outside the Indian high commission in London in March.
The pressure came as the new UK foreign secretary, David Cameron, met the Indian external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, in one of his first bilateral meetings. Jaishankar is backing demands from the Indian National Investigation Agency (NIA) for further cooperation over those involved in the violence.
The police handling of the demonstration and its subsequent investigation has become a raw nerve in Indian-British relations, but both sides deny it is acting as a brake on the Indian-British free trade talks.
Cameron is enthusiastic about relations with India and sought during his premiership to deepen ties, inviting the Indian PM, Narendra Modi, on a three-day state visit in 2015.
Nadine Dorries accused Rishi Sunak of being “quick to anger” as she said it was the wrong move to sack Suella Braverman.
“I don’t think it was right to sack Suella,” the former minister and MP told Sky News.
Suella Braverman’s parting shot to Rishi Sunak after he sacked her is a stinging letter in which she makes a series of attacks on his policies and style of government.
Here we analyse her key points.
As you know, I accepted your offer to serve as home secretary in October 2022 on certain conditions. Despite you having been rejected by a majority of party members during the summer leadership contest and thus having no personal mandate to be prime minister, I agreed to support you because of the firm assurances you gave me on key policy priorities … This was a document with clear terms.
As soon as Sunak unexpectedly appointed the outspoken Braverman last autumn, it was rumoured that it had been part of a secret deal to help Sunak’s leadership campaign gain rightwing supporters who might otherwise have clamoured for the return of the exiled Boris Johnson.
Here, Braverman makes the incendiary claim that not only did such a deal exist, but Sunak actually signed up to a series of written pledges. If the prime minister did indeed make such a deal, it raises serious questions about his political judgment – such a document is an extraordinary hostage to fortune, as Braverman is now demonstrating.
But a deal like this also makes Sunak look weak, suggesting he was so uncertain about his standing within his own party that he was willing to subcontract large areas of policy to a rightwinger whose stance appears to be quite different from his. It may also help explain Braverman’s apparent sense that she did not need to abide by collective cabinet responsibility, as well as the ongoing ambiguity over the past year about what Sunak’s government actually stands for.
The UK’s business and trade secretary has signed a deal to increase trade with Florida, the British government’s latest pact with a single US state as it awaits a broader, post-Brexit, US free trade agreement.
The memorandum of understanding, signed on Tuesday by Kemi Badenoch and the Florida governor, Ron DeSantis, is the seventh deal between the UK and individual US states. The UK said the deal would focus on space, financial technology, artificial intelligence and legal services.
The UK government is keen to secure a deal with the US as a central part of its post-Brexit efforts to increase trade with countries beyond the EU. However, progress has been slow despite the Conservative party pledging in its 2019 manifesto to reach an agreement within three years.
Rishi Sunak has finished his cabinet reshuffle, centred on forming a “strong and united team”. But for the first time since 2010, Sunak has ensured men get the top four positions in government.
Liz Truss’s ministry was notable for initially having no white men serving in the great offices of state for the first time in British political history, with Kwasi Kwarteng becoming the first black chancellor.
Downing Street said on Tuesday it is not focused on “tick-box diversity” as the prime minister is “clear that it’s actions and tangible impacts on the public that matters”. Sunak’s press secretary said women were getting senior jobs elsewhere in government, insisting a lot of women had risen up the ranks.
All of the ministers holding the four great offices of state were privately educated. Sunak attended Winchester college, the chancellor, Jeremy Hunt, went to Charterhouse, David Cameron attended Eton and James Cleverly went to Colfe’s school.
Keir Starmer will resist pressure from his MPs to back a ceasefire in Gaza on Wednesday in a move that could trigger one of the most significant rebellions of his leadership.
The Labour leader is backing an amendment to the king’s speech that will criticise how Israel has conducted its military campaign. But it will fall short of calling for the ceasefire that nearly a quarter of his parliamentary party wants.
Labour officials have told the party’s MPs to vote for their motion but to abstain on one from the Scottish National party calling for an outright ceasefire, making clear that they will sack any frontbencher who rebels by voting for the SNP amendment.
How damaging is Suella Braverman's departure letter?
The last time Suella Braverman left the Home Office, in October 2022, she also wrote a letter that was damning about the prime minister. Today’s, though, is on a different scale.
Take out the passage about the leadership contest deal, and it is bad enough. That is not so much because of the passages about weak leadership (a standard complaint from opponents of a PM) or the passage about extremism (which will strike some people as hyperbole), but because Braverman performs an astute “I told you so” manoeuvre on Rwanda. She is probably right to say that, even if the government wins in the supreme court tomorrow, flights to Rwanda will take longer to start (and involve fewer people) than many Tory supporters expect or want. She has detached herself from Rishi Sunak on an issue where she thinks she has public opinion on her side.
But it is the claim about the leadership contest that is most damaging because it takes a wrecking ball to Sunak’s reputation for integrity. It was always assumed that some sort of deal was done. In the first leadership contest of 2022 Braverman promised to back Liz Truss at a time when her rightwing Tory MP supporters might otherwise have rallied behind Kemi Badenoch. In return, Truss promised to promote Braverman from attorney general to home secretary. (There was an explicit deal, as Ben Riley-Smith confirms in his excellent new book on the Tories, The Right to Rule.) With Sunak, Braverman pulled off the same trick. It is arguable whether, as she claims, her endorsement was “pivotal”, but it certainly helped. She declared for Sunak on Sunday 23 October and that night Boris Johnson declared he was pulling out of the contest. Sunak was then elected unopposed.
What is surprising is the claim that Sunak offered explicit promises, and not just nudges and winks. We have yet to hear his side of the story and it may be that, when she says he promised to support policies contained in a document, he was simply saying, “Yes, of course, I’ll consider etc etc.” Yet reports that there are witnesses (see 5.01pm), and hints that she will publish the text (see 5.12pm), imply she might be able to provide strong evidence of a deal of sorts. This will alarm Tory MPs who backed Sunak precisely because they thought he was not the sort of candidate to sign up to a hard Brexit ERG-type wishlist. They will also want to know why he was naive enough to haggle like this with Braverman when he probably did not need to anyway.
None of this means Sunak will be toppled in a leadership contest. There is no obvious replacement, and there is little appetite among Tory MPs for another ballot. (Even Braverman is not calling for one.) But – unless he can provide a robust rebuttal, which he hasn’t so far – Sunak looks tainted and demeaned. For Labour, it’s a godsend.
That’s all from me for today. My collegue Tom Ambrose is taking over now.
This is yet more Conservative chaos. Suella Braverman failed at every task at hand as home secretary and now she seems determined to drag everyone else down with her.
While people struggle to see their GP or pay their mortgages, this government is too busy dealing with their own infighting.
When will this Conservative party soap opera end?
The prime minister was proud to appoint a strong, united team yesterday focused on delivering for the British people.
The prime minister believes in actions not words. He is proud that this government has brought forward the toughest legislation to tackle illegal migration this country has seen and has subsequently reduced the number of boat crossings by a third this year. And whatever the outcome of the supreme court tomorrow, he will continue that work.
The PM thanks the former home secretary for her service.
Braverman tells Sunak to 'change course urgently', saying 'your plan is not working'
And here is how Braverman ends her letter.
In October of last year you were given an opportunity to lead our country. It is a privilege to serve and one we should not take for granted. Service requires bravery and thinking of the common good. It is not about occupying the office as an end in itself.
Someone needs to be honest: your plan is not working, we have endured record election defeats, your resets have failed and we are running out of time. You need to change course urgently.
I may not have always found the right words, but I have always striven to give voice to the quiet majority that supported us in 2019. I have endeavoured to be honest and true to the people who put us in these privileged positions.
I will, of course, continue to support the government in pursuit of policies which align with an authentic conservative agenda.
Another cause for disappointment – and the context for my recent article in The Times – has been your failure to rise to the challenge posed by the increasingly vicious antisemitism and extremism displayed on our streets since Hamas’s terrorist atrocities of 7 October.
I have become hoarse urging you to consider legislation to ban the hate marches and help stem the rising tide of racism, intimidation and terrorist glorification threatening community cohesion. Britain is at a turning point in our history and faces a threat of radicalisation and extremism in a way not seen for 20 years. I regret to say that your response has been uncertain, weak, and lacking in the qualities of leadership that this country needs. Rather than fully acknowledge the severity of this threat, your team disagreed with me for weeks that the law needed changing.
As on so many other issues, you sought to put off tough decisions in order to minimise political risk to yourself. In doing so you have increased the very real risk these marches present to everyone else.
In the third section of the letter Braverman writes about small boats, and the supreme court decision on the Rwanda policy tomorrow.
Your rejection of this path (see 5pm) was not merely a betrayal of our agreement, but a betrayal of your promise to the nation that you would do ‘whatever it lakes’ to stop the boats.
At every stage of litigation I cautioned you and your team against assuming we would win. I repeatedly urged you to take legislative measures that would better secure us against the possibility of defeat. You ignored these arguments. You opted instead for wishful thinking as a comfort blanket to avoid having to make hard choices. This irresponsibility has wasted time and left the country in an impossible position.
If we lose in the supreme court, an outcome that I have consistently argued we must be prepared for, you will have wasted a year and an Act of Parliament, only to arrive back at square one. Worse than this, your magical thinking – believing that you can will your way through this without upsetting polite opinion – has meant you have failed to prepare any sort of credible ‘Plan B’. I wrote to you on multiple occasions setting out what a credible Plan B would entail, and making clear that unless you pursue these proposals, in the event of defeat, there is no hope of flights this side of an election. I received no reply from you.
I can only surmise that this is because you have no appetite for doing what is necessary, and therefore no real intention of fulfilling your pledge to the British people.
If, on the other hand, we win in the supreme court, because of the compromises that you insisted on in the Illegal Migration Act, the government will struggle to deliver our Rwanda partnership in the way that the public expects. The Act is far from secure against legal challenge. People will not be removed as swiftly as I originally proposed. The average claimant will be entitled to months of process, challenge, and appeal. Your insistence that rule 39 indications [injunctions imposed by the European court of human rights] are binding in international law – against the views of leading lawyers, as set out in the House of Lords – will leave us vulnerable to being thwarted yet again by the Strasbourg court.
On the PM programme Chris Mason, the BBC’s political editor, says he has asked Braverman’s team if he can see the document she writes about which set out the conditions Sunak agreed to when she promised to support him. Mason says he was told that was “not for today” – implying she is planning to release it in due course.
Palestinians trapped inside Gaza’s biggest hospital are digging mass graves, with no means of keeping corpses from decomposing due to Israel’s siege, an official there says.
With Israeli forces at the gates of the complex, and fighting raging with Hamas militants in the streets of Gaza City, patients have been dying owing to energy shortages and dwindling supplies. Some of the hospital’s buildings have been bombed.
The Biden administration said on Tuesday that US intelligence supported Israel claims that Hamas was using al-Shifa as a military command centre and probably as a weapons store too.
But Kirby added that the actions of Hamas did not diminish Israel’s responsibility to protect civilians in the course of its military operations.
At least 32 patients, including three premature babies, died at the weekend, the health ministry in Gaza said, and another 36 babies and other patients at al-Shifa were at risk. Life-saving equipment, such as incubators, cannot function without fuel to run generators.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (Ocha) said on Tuesday that more than 200,000 people had fled northern Gaza in the past 10 days.
It said only one hospital in the northern half of the blockaded Gaza Strip – al-Awda – still had electricity and was able to receive patients, with other medical facilities in sprawling Gaza City now mostly functioning as shelters for people fleeing the violence.
Those who have left in the last week join the estimated 1.5 million people – three-quarters of the blockaded territory’s population – who have already fled their homes through the Israeli military “safe routes” in the six weeks of war that has killed more than 11,000 Palestinians and 1,200 people in Israel, according to officials.
Hebrew-language media reported on Tuesday that Israeli and Palestinian officials were trying to arrange for unconscious patients and those requiring dialysis and cancer treatment to be evacuated from al-Shifa to appropriate facilities in the southern half of the strip. The reports were not immediately confirmed by medics on the ground. The Israeli military said it had started an effort to send incubators to the hospital, but it was not clear how they would be transferred.
Civilians in the area said heavy gunfire could be heard around the hospital compound. Staff at al-Shifa have said snipers were shooting at people outside, making it dangerous to move around the complex.
A World Health Organization spokesperson, Margaret Harris, said on Tuesday that the world needed to focus on “saving lives, not taking lives”.
A spokesperson for the UN secretary general, António Guterres, said he was deeply disturbed by the “dramatic loss of life” in Gaza hospitals. “In the name of humanity, the secretary general calls for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire,” said the spokesperson, Stéphane Dujarric.
The US president, Joe Biden, said on Monday that he hoped the Israeli military would proceed with a “less intrusive” operation at al-Shifa, adding that Palestinian civilians must be protected.
Israel says al-Shifa sits above the “nerve centre” of the Palestinian militant group’s operations. Israel has not provided conclusive evidence, but the group often fires rockets from densely crowded residential areas and maintains a vast tunnel network.
UN officials have said Israel’s claims of militant activity in hospitals, whether true or false, do not absolve it from an obligation to spare civilian life.
The war, the fifth in Gaza since Hamas seized control of the strip in 2007 and already the bloodiest in the 75-year-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict, was sparked by an unprecedented assault by Hamas in which militants massacred hundreds of Israeli civilians and took 240 hostage. Three weeks of Israeli airstrikes, one of the most intense such campaigns anywhere in the world this century, were followed by a ground invasion.
Israeli troops and tanks have slowly but steadily cut off Gaza City as talks mediated by Qatar and the US on releasing hostages and brokering a humanitarian pause or ceasefire have stalled. The Israeli military has ordered Palestinian civilians to move south of the Gaza river to “safe zones” but there has also been intense bombing in the southern half of the strip.
In southern Gaza on Tuesday, young men carrying a man wounded from an Israeli strike rushed into Nasser hospital, one of the few medical centres still open.
At the same hospital, in the city of Khan Younis, relatives of those killed in Israeli attacks wept as their bodies were transferred from the morgue to be buried.
A French hospital ship is expected to arrive in the region in the next few days, and the UAE is setting up a field hospital in Gaza’s south, but these measures are unlikely to alleviate the humanitarian crisis for the 2.3 million Gaza population. The coastal territory, already impoverished by the 16-year-old Israeli-Egyptian blockade imposed after the Hamas takeover, has been left in ruins by the Israeli bombing campaign: about 45% of houses have been damaged or destroyed, along with 279 educational facilities, the UN said on Monday.
Clean water, food and medical supplies are scarce. A tiny fraction of the aid that used to reach Gaza every day has entered from Egypt. Rubbish is piling up in the streets, increasing the risk of diseases such as cholera and dysentery.
Israel’s foreign minister, Eli Cohen, said on Monday that he believed that the international community would press Israel to wind down its operations in Gaza in the next two to three weeks. “From a political standpoint, we are starting to see that pressure on Israel has begun. That pressure isn’t very high, but it is in an upward trend … we will continue in any event according to plan,” he told reporters.
Israel has vowed to destroy Hamas as a military and governing power in Gaza, but it is not clear what it plans to do with the territory after the fighting subsides.
A senior far-right member of the Israeli government, the finance minister, Bezalel Smotrich, said on Tuesday that Palestinians should “voluntarily” leave Gaza for other countries.
Palestinians have accused Israel of seeking a new Nakba, or catastrophe, the mass displacement of 700,000 Palestinians in wars surrounding the founding of the state of Israel in 1948.
On Saturday, Avi Dichter, a member of the Israeli security cabinet member and agriculture minister, said in a television interview: “We are now rolling out the Gaza Nakba.” The prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, warned cabinet ministers the next day to choose their words carefully.
An unverified video published online showed what appeared to be Israeli soldiers in front of bombed-out buildings, with one saying they were “conquering, expelling and settling”.
On Tuesday, rocket fire by Palestinian militants in Gaza hit areas around the strip, including the city of Ashkelon, where medics said two Israelis were lightly wounded. Hours later, shrapnel from another rocket attack on Tel Aviv, wounded three people, one of them seriously.
In the north, anti-tank missiles and mortars were fired from Lebanon at Israeli military positions, and forces returned fire, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said. Israel’s fighting with the powerful Iran-backed militia Hezbollah has killed about 70 Lebanese militants and 16 civilians, as well as seven Israeli soldiers and three civilians.
In the occupied West Bank, the worst violence for 20 years continued to escalate, with 182 Palestinians killed, mostly in clashes with the IDF and Israeli settlers living in the Palestinian territory. Israeli forces killed at least eight Palestinians in the West Bank on Tuesday, Palestinian medics and local media said.
Here is what we know about the breaking news that Israeli forces have entered Gaza’s al-Shifa hospital.
The Israeli Defence Force has just said on X that it is “carrying out a precise and targeted operation against Hamas in a specified area in the Shifa Hospital”.
White House: 'We don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital'
How many people are inside al-Shifa hospital?
Al-Shifa surgeon says tanks, bulldozers in hospital complex, 'firing is still heavy'
Hamas-affiliated news agency says IDF has stormed 'parts of al-Shifa medical complex'
What are the competing claims about Hamas operations inside al-Shifa?
What are conditions like in the hospital?
How many people are sheltering at al-Shifa hospital?
IDF signals 'continuation of the operation'
Israeli minister says Israel no longer able to accept existence of Gaza, calls for 'voluntary emigration'
The Associated Press reports that after four failed attempts, the UN Security Council is trying for a fifth time to come up with a resolution on the Israel-Hamas war, but it remains to be seen whether serious divisions can be overcome to produce a consensus on wording.
The current draft under negotiation would demand “immediate extended humanitarian pauses” throughout the Gaza Strip to provide civilians with desperately needed aid. It also would demand that “all parties” comply with international humanitarian law that requires protection for civilians, calls for special protections for children, and bans hostage-taking.
But the draft, proposed by council member Malta and obtained on Tuesday by The Associated Press, makes no mention of a ceasefire. It also doesn’t refer to Hamas’ surprise attack on Israel on 7 October that killed around 1,200 people and took some 240 others hostage. Nor does it cite Israel’s retaliatory airstrikes and ground offensive in Hamas-ruled Gaza that the Gaza health ministry says has killed more than 11,000 Palestinians, two-thirds of them women and children.
Several council diplomats said the opposing sides were getting closer. Two said that a vote on the latest draft could come as early as Wednesday but that delegations were still checking with their capitals. The diplomats insisted on speaking anonymously because the negotiations are supposed to be private.
Israel’s military has said it was carrying out a raid against Hamas in al-Shifa hospital early on Wednesday, conducting what it called a “precise and targeted operation against Hamas in a specified area” of the medical complex.
Less than an hour earlier, around 1am local time, a Gaza health ministry spokesperson said Israel had told officials in the territory that it would raid the hospital complex “in the coming minutes”. Al-Shifa is Gaza’s biggest hospital.
Dr Munir al-Bursh, director-general of the Gaza health ministry, told Al Jazeera television that Israeli forces had raided the western side of the sprawling site. “There are big explosions and dust entered the areas where we are. We believe an explosion occurred inside the hospital,” Bursh said.
A spokesperson for the Ministry of Health in Gaza has told Al Jazeera that Israeli forces are searching the basement of the al-Shifa Hospital.
Hospitals and the patients inside them “must be protected,” the White House said late Tuesday when asked about an operation by its ally Israel, which has sent troops into Gaza’s largest hospital, Al-Shifa.
The White House “won’t speak to the specifics of an ongoing Israeli military operation,” a spokesperson from the National Security Council said when asked about military move into Al-Shifa.
“As we’ve said, we do not support striking a hospital from the air and we don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital where innocent people, helpless people, sick people trying to get medical care they deserve are caught in the crossfire. Hospitals and patients must be protected,” the spokesperson continued.
The statement came after US President Joe Biden spoke with Israel’s Benjamin Netanyahu earlier Tuesday, apparently before the Israeli operation into Al-Shifa was announced.
The operation was not discussed during that call, which the White House said in an earlier statement had focused on efforts to free hostages held by Hamas.
Al-Shifa hospital has been the focal point of days of fighting and nearby aerial bombardments in Israel’s war with Hamas.
Thousands of patients, staff and displaced civilians are believed to be inside the hospital complex, according to local officials.
Witnesses have described conditions as horrific, with medical procedures taking place without anesthetic, families with scant food or water living in corridors, and the stench of decomposing corpses filling the air.
The Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said early on Wednesday it was “carrying out a precise and targeted operation” against Hamas in al-Shifa hospital, the largest hospital in Gaza.
Gaza’s health ministry has been quoted by Palestinian news agency Shebab as saying that “dozens of soldiers” have entered the al-Shifa emergency department building, and that tanks have entered the complex.
A witness inside al-Shifa told the BBC they saw six tanks and more than 100 soldiers inside the hospital complex, in the area around the emergency department. The Guardian has not been able to verify the claims.
Ahmed Mokhallalati, a surgeon at al-Shifa, has told Al Jazeera that Israeli tanks and bulldozers had entered the complex. ‘The firing is still heavy, and we are hearing explosions everywhere,’ he said.
Figures vary widely on how many people are at the site. On Sunday, the World Health Organization (WHO) put the figure at about 1,500 displaced people, up to 650 inpatients and 200 to 500 health workers.
A White House official, speaking after the operation was announced, said it does not want to see a firefight in a hospital. A spokesperson for the National Security Council, who did not wish to be named, said: “We do not support striking a hospital from the air and we don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital where innocent people, helpless people, sick people trying to get medical care they deserve are caught in the crossfire.
Joe Biden and Benjamin Netanyahu spoke “at length” about ongoing efforts to secure the release of hostages held by Hamas, including many children and a number of Americans.
The IDF announcement of its operation came within an hour of Palestinian health officials in Gaza saying the IDF had told them it would raid the hospital “within minutes”. The Gaza health ministry spokesperson, Ashraf al-Qidra, told Al Jazeera that Israel “informed us that it will raid al-Shifa hospital complex in the coming minutes”.
On its Hebrew X account, the IDF appeared to signal that once inside the hospital, it would continue to have a presence there, saying, “in the continuation of the operation, incubators, medical equipment and baby food are expected to be transferred to the hospital”.
The White House has said it has intelligence supporting Israel’s claims that Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad use some hospitals in the Gaza Strip – including al-Shifa hospital – to conceal or support their military operations and to hold hostages. “That is a war crime,” national security spokesperson John Kirby said, adding that those actions by Hamas did not lessen Israel’s responsibility to protect civilians in the course of its military operations.
Hamas said it strongly condemned and rejected the claims, adding that these statements “give a green light to the Israeli occupation to commit further brutal massacres targeting hospitals”.
The WHO has insisted that moving the most vulnerable patients from al-Shifa hospital has become an “impossible task”. WHO spokesperson Margaret Harris, speaking to reporters in Geneva, said the “heroic” health workers have been “doing whatever they can to keep going” while the facility has been without power since Saturday and there was not enough food and clean water.
Another 200,000 people have fled northern Gaza in the past 10 days, the UN has said. The UN office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (Ocha) said on Tuesday that only one hospital in the northern half of the blockaded Gaza Strip, al-Awda, still had electricity and was able to receive patients, with other medical facilities in sprawling Gaza City now mostly functioning as shelters for those fleeing the violence.
Israeli authorities have said they have now identified the remains of 859 civilians killed during the 7 October Hamas attack inside southern Israel. The work to identify bodies is ongoing, they said. On 10 November, Israel revised down the number of Israeli deaths on 7 October from the previously given figure of 1,400 to 1,200.
The families of Israelis being held hostage by Hamas have started a five-day march on Tuesday from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to demand the government does more to secure their release. The prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, is coming under fierce criticism from some relatives for not doing more to secure their release, even as Israeli troops push further into the Gaza Strip and the region is bombarded by the Israeli air force.
Tens of thousands of demonstrators have gathered in Washington on Tuesday to support Israel, condemn antisemitism and demand the release of the hostages. US Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Mike Johnson spoke at the “March for Israel” event on the National Mall, as well as family members of the hostages.
White House: 'We don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital'
The White House has said it does not want to see a firefight in a hospital, Reuters has reported, with the official speaking after the Israeli military said it was carrying out an operation against Hamas inside the al-Shifa hospital in Gaza.
A spokesperson for the White House National Security Council, who did not wish to be named, said: “We do not support striking a hospital from the air and we don’t want to see a firefight in a hospital where innocent people, helpless people, sick people trying to get medical care they deserve are caught in the crossfire.
On Monday, Biden said that hospitals there “must be protected”. “My hope and expectation is that there will be less intrusive action relative to hospitals,” Biden told reporters.
The White House has said Joe Biden spoke to Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday afternoon and discussed “ at length ongoing efforts to secure the release of hostages held by Hamas, including many children and a number of Americans”.
The statement does not mention al-Shifa hospital.
Gaza’s health ministry has been quoted by Palestinian news agency Shebab as saying that “dozens of soldiers” have entered the al-Shifa emergency department building, and that tanks have entered the complex.
Previously, Ahmed Mokhallalati, a surgeon at al-Shifa, has told Al Jazeera that Israeli tanks and bulldozers had entered the al-Shifa complex.
The Guardian has not been able to verify the claims.
The below satellite image – taken on 11 November – shows Gaza’s al-Shifa hospital complex. The specialised surgery department is housed in the multi-storey building to right and slightly above the plume of white smoke. This is where a witness reported seeing soldiers entering.
How many people are inside al-Shifa hospital?
Figures for the number of people sheltering inside the al-Shifa hospital complex differ widely.
Marwan Abu Sada, the head of surgery at al-Shifa,told the Guardian on Tuesday that an estimated 15,000 people were sheltering in al-Shifa as of Saturday morning, after thousands fled the intensifying bombardments.
On Wednesday, as the IDF announced that it had entered the hospital, Ahmed Mokhallalati, a doctor at al-Shifa, told Al Jazeera that there are 650 patients at the hopsital, with 100 in critical condition.
He said between 2,000 and 3,000 people were sheltering at the hospital and that 700 medics and administrators were there.
A witness inside al-Shifa has told the BBC’s correspondent in Palestine, Rushdi Abu Alouf, that soliders have entered the complex and “fired a smoke bomb that caused people to suffocate”, Khader Al-Zaanoun told Abu Aloud.
“I saw the soldiers entering the specialised surgical department,” Al-Zaanoun said before contact ended.
Al-Shifa surgeon says tanks, bulldozers in hospital complex, 'firing is still heavy'
Ahmed Mokhallalati, a surgeon at al-Shifa, has told Al Jazeera that Israeli tanks and bulldozers have entered the al-Shifa complex.
He said he inspected the main building above the emergency room, and Israeli forces do not appear to have entered it. But he added that he does not know the state of other buildings that are also housing patients and displaced people.
‘The firing is still heavy, and we are hearing explosions everywhere,’ Mokhallalati told Al Jazeera.
[He said that] the occupation tanks were at the gates of Al-Shifa Medical Complex, surrounding it from all sides, and the past hours had witnessed intense shelling and gunfire in its vicinity.
Our correspondent explained that a state of panic and fear prevailed among patients, displaced people, and medical staff inside the hospital, after the occupation announced its intention to storm the hospital.
Those comments from Hamas saying “we hold the occupation and President Biden responsible for the occupation army’s storming of the Shifa complex” come after the White House said on Tuesday that it has intelligence supporting Israel claims that Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad use some hospitals in the Gaza Strip – including al-Shifa hospital – to conceal or support their military operations and to hold hostages.
Hamas said it strongly condemned and rejected the claims, adding that these statements “give a green light to the Israeli occupation to commit further brutal massacres targeting hospitals”.