Enough is enough. What began as a seemingly reasonable Israeli retaliation for Hamas' attacks on the Jewish state on Oct 7 has gone too far. Israel's military offensive in Gaza has become increasingly indiscriminate with the bombing of refugee camps, besieging of hospitals and turning of the Palestinian enclave into a living inferno with appalling humanitarian tragedies happening on a daily basis.
According to reports, Al-Quds Hospital, Gaza's second-largest hospital, was forced to shut down due to a lack of fuel and the ongoing Israeli siege, which led to difficulties operating the facility. Al-Shifa Hospital, Gaza's largest hospital, was bombed and surrounded by tanks, and even temporarily cut off from the outside world.
On Monday, Qatar's Foreign Ministry strongly condemned the Israeli bombing of the headquarters of the Qatar Committee for the Reconstruction of Gaza, which was working to"alleviate the suffering of the population in the besieged Gaza Strip due to the long blockade and ongoing aggression".
Also on Monday, United Nations offices across the world observed a minute of silence with the UN flag flown at half-mast in honor of the more than 100 aid workers and UN agency employees killed in assisting Palestinian refugees in Gaza. Such a reckless and random offensive that makes no distinction between civilians and militants, and considers civilian life-support infrastructure a justified target for attack should be unconditionally condemned.
Israel should know its forces' blatant disregard of international law and the ensuing humanitarian catastrophe it has wrought are quickly eroding the sympathy for its losses suffered at the beginning of this round of conflict. Not to mention that its unrestrained retaliation also risks igniting a wider war in the Middle East.
Not only are Jewish settlers in the West Bank shooting to kill Palestinian civilians, Israel is fighting the Hezbollah on its northern border and bombing Syrian targets too. The spillover of the Israel-Palestine conflict is already happening. If the fighting continues it can be only a matter of time before more players become directly involved, painting an even bleaker picture for peace and stability in the Middle East.
The current round of conflict is dragging into a second month, but rather than there being an end in sight, the situation is worsening day by day. To prevent a greater humanitarian disaster, Israel should immediately lift the siege on Gaza's hospitals and completely remove restrictions on livelihood supplies to the enclave, especially fuel deliveries to humanitarian and medical institutions and livelihood facilities.
China has consistently called for a cease-fire and the scaling up of humanitarian assistance. It urges all parties, especially influential players and stakeholders in the region, to work together to persuade Israel to bring an end to its collective punishment of civilians in Gaza.
UNITED NATIONS - A Chinese envoy on Monday called for greater efforts to support the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East.
"Given the current context, the international community should make greater efforts to support the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction (WMDs), which is of great urgency and relevance in facilitating reconciliation and cooperation among regional countries in the Middle East and advancing the Middle East peace process," said Geng Shuang, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.
Speaking at the fourth session of the Conference on the Establishment of a Middle East Zone Free of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction, Geng said that nuclear weapons and other WMDs have been "a major factor causing a trust deficit in the Middle East, undermining regional peace and stability".
"China supports the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and other WMDs and believes that this move will help curb the proliferation of WMDs, safeguard the authority and effectiveness of the international non-proliferation regime, and reduce the risk of an arms race and conflict, thereby providing an important mechanism for the maintenance of long-term regional peace and security," he said.
Geng underscored that China is concerned about flagrant violations of the basic norms governing international relations.
"It pains to see massive civilian casualties on both sides and it is heart-wrenching to witness the worsening humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip. Violence cannot bring true security. The use of force will not create lasting peace," he added.
The ambassador stressed that peace and security in the Middle East "bear on not only the interests of regional states, but also global stability".
"In response to the current global and regional security dilemma, China maintains that the international community should adhere to the concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable security, insist on building a balanced, effective, and sustainable international security architecture, and adhere to a new path to security that features dialogue over confrontation, partnership over alliances, and win-win over zero-sum," he said.
Geng noted that it is China's wisdom and approach to eliminating the root causes of international conflicts and achieving durable stability and security in the region.
"The Middle East question, with its intertwined historical and practical contradictions, cannot be resolved overnight. It requires all parties to uphold the concept of common security, adhere to the principle of indivisibility of security, and gradually shape a favorable political and diplomatic atmosphere," he said.
"Countries in the region should strengthen their solidarity and coordination and forge mutual trust and consensus. Certain countries outside the region should abandon their narrow geopolitical interests and political manipulation, stop deliberately provoking confrontation in the region, and make practical contributions to the maintenance of regional security," Geng pointed out.
He further said that maintaining the authority and effectiveness of the international nuclear non-proliferation regime is crucial to the establishment of a nuclear weapon free zone in the Middle East.
"Recently, what the Israeli officials said about the use of nuclear weapons in the Gaza Strip has caused an uproar. China was shocked by statements of this kind and expressed its concern," he said.
"This kind of statements is universally condemned. It is extremely irresponsible and disturbing. Such statements run counter to the international consensus that a nuclear war cannot be won and must not be fought, are contrary to the international spirit of establishing a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons, and go against the overwhelming international call to deescalate, cease hostilities, and protect civilians," he continued.
Geng urged Israeli officials "to retract these statements," and urged Israel to accede to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons as a non-nuclear weapon state "as soon as possible" and to place all its nuclear facilities under the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Geng noted that China firmly commits to a nuclear strategy of self-defense, adding that "China will continue to practically contribute to the maintenance of peace, security, and stability in the Middle East region, and is ready to join others to forge consensus at this conference and to inject new impetus to the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons."
Experts have called on the United States to work with China to promote peace and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region and jointly address global challenges, following US Secretary of State Antony Blinken's Asia visit.
Blinken wrapped up an intense nine-day diplomatic tour of the Middle East and Asia in India on Friday. His trip included South Korea and a G7 foreign ministers' meeting in Japan, and discussed topics covering the Palestine-Israel conflict, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and some so-called geopolitical concerns in the "Indo-Pacific". China was also a topic of discussion between Blinken and US allies.
Yuan Zheng, deputy director of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences' Institute of American Studies, said Blinken's meeting with regional partners in Asia was to show unity over major geopolitical issues and prevent existing differences on Gaza from deepening.
Yuan said that in recent years, the US has been reducing its military presence in the Middle East and shifted its strategic focus to the Asia-Pacific region. Thus, the worsening of the conflict is not in its interest, especially when there is an increasing call for a humanitarian ceasefire from the global community. "So, it is important for the US to keep communication with allies in Asia."
He Yun, an associate professor at Hunan University's School of Public Policy, said Blinken's trip reflected a clear recognition within the US government of the need to reassure allies of its commitment to the "Indo-Pacific", as some think that the US global strategy with a focus on Asia-Pacific would be distracted by the Gaza conflict.
"The US' strategic messaging and diplomatic initiatives appear to be aimed at maintaining confidence among its partners in the region that it has not diverted its attention away from this crucial geopolitical arena," she said.
However, she said that at a time when the world is facing more and more uncertainties, with geopolitical conflicts increasing and economic recovery slowing, it is unwise and not in the interest of the US to continue to provoke confrontation in the Asia-Pacific region.
She said the world has expectations for the relationship between the US and China to improve, as leaders of both countries are expected to meet and attend the APEC meeting in San Francisco this week.
"It should be noted that the global landscape is keenly observing the dynamics between China and the US," she said.
She also said China is sending a positive signal with its leader's visit to San Francisco and calls for international actions to reduce tensions. "It shows that China is sincere and plays a responsible role in China-US relations and world peace and development. A responsible response by the US is anticipated."
Yuan said that unless the Palestine-Israel conflict and the Russia-Ukraine conflict spiral out of control and escalate on a large scale, US strategic focus will remain on the Asia-Pacific.
This year, there have been frequent interactions between China and the US, with bilateral ties showing signs of emerging from its lowest level in decades.
Yuan said the US should take substantial action to rebuild mutual trust between the two sides to stabilize the relationship with China, rather than saying one thing and doing another.
The cooperation and competition between China and the United States in various sectors ultimately reflect their security relations.
The interaction and crisis management mechanisms between the two nations in traditional security domains, including geopolitical security, economic security, and international security, can only enable both sides to maintain a fragile balance in their security relations, and there is no guarantee that they will not escalate out of control.
Beijing and Washington should therefore make long-term efforts to broaden their perspective on security relations and promote the building of a community with a shared security responsibility for mankind.
The dilemma facing traditional security relations between China and the US is evident. In terms of geopolitical issues, the US, driven by a strategy of balancing power in the Atlantic and Pacific and fueled by the fear of China's rise and ideological differences, has employed a strategy of containment and encirclement by leveraging geopolitical tensions and collaborating with regional allies. As for economic and trade relations, the economic cooperation between the two countries has been confronted with challenges in political and security issues, ranging from a trade war to a tech war. In international security, there are differences in their positions on major geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the Israel-Palestine conflict, and their consensus and coordinated actions in global governance have dwindled.
To break free from challenges in their traditional security relations, it is necessary for both sides to focus on higher dimensions, seeking more common ground in human security and expanding the space for interaction. Beyond the traditional challenges such as climate change, the COVID-19 pandemic, major ecological challenges resulting from nuclear wastewater discharge, and humanitarian crises arising from local conflicts, have made the concept of human security, as outlined in the United Nations' Human Development Report 1994, even more relevant. In this new international environment, safeguarding human security, which includes political security, personal security, environmental security, food security, health security, economic security and community security, requires the international community, particularly the two major countries, to go beyond traditional notions and work toward the betterment of global human security while promoting the positive development of their own international relations.
China and the US have a responsibility and the ability to jointly safeguard human security. Threats to human security, such as climate change, the escalation of geopolitical conflicts, the risk of uncontrolled use of weapons of mass destruction, cybersecurity, ethical risks related to artificial intelligence and biotechnology and crimes against humanity, pose potential dangers far greater than the security threats that stem from conflicts in their real interests. Addressing these common security threats necessitates building a sense of shared responsibility between China and the US and establishing mechanisms for joint responsibility. Both countries, with their mature political systems, strong organizational and mobilization capabilities and leading strength in advanced technologies and culture, play pivotal roles in global governance.
This provides a realistic basis for their cooperation over human security. In fact, both countries have conducted positive interactions in areas such as climate change, marine conservation, and public health, indicating the potential for consensus on human security.
Sino-US cooperation in the field of human security is still far from reaching a scope and level that matches the importance of this issue. The two sides have yet to establish a dialogue and negotiation mechanism for human security, and the academic community needs to delve deeper into this issue. In the face of uncertainties and challenges in traditional security cooperation, it is important for both countries to promote in-depth dialogue and cooperation from the perspective of their shared responsibility for human security.
It is necessary to incorporate the theme of human security into the bilateral diplomatic security dialogue mechanism. The China-US diplomatic security dialogue mechanism, first established in 2017, is a significant initiative. It is necessary to include the shared responsibility for human security community as a regular topic into this mechanism and invite leading scholars on human security into the discussions to promote the establishment of relevant cooperation mechanisms.
Efforts should be made to solidify the economic foundation of China-US cooperation in human security. Human security encompasses the most fundamental security needs of humanity, and these needs drive supply. This logic provides ample space for mutual interaction between the two countries in the economic and financial sectors regarding human security. For example, both countries can engage in more pragmatic cooperation in areas such as infrastructure financing related to human security, food and healthcare products, large-scale disaster insurance, and personal insurance.
It is important to build up awareness of the need for a community with a shared responsibility for human security among the public. It is necessary to strengthen nongovernmental dialogues on security concepts and cooperation, organize exchanges at various levels, including young students, women's groups, and media organizations, on the issue of the shared responsibility for human security. Additionally, academic disciplines related to human security should be established in universities and research institutions to step up relevant research. By maximizing consensus on the shared responsibility for human security, the public support for building a community with a shared responsibility for human security can be strengthened, which could enable both governments to give more consideration to human security factors when formulating security policies.
The cooperation in human security governance within international organizations and global governance should be invigorated. China and the US should work together and play a leading role in addressing various international challenges in the field of human security, including those faced by international organizations such as the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Labor Organization, and UNESCO.
It is imperative to strengthen cooperation in human security with a broader range of countries. Human security is not only a concern for China and the US, but also for the broader international community. It is necessary to strengthen dialogue, research, and cooperation in the field of human security with other countries, finding like-minded partners. For example, topics related to human security could be introduced within frameworks like the Belt and Road Initiative and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to explore governance approaches for cybersecurity, climate change, space and technological security and establish relevant cooperation mechanisms. The establishment of a thematic forum on the shared responsibility for human security will help maximize international consensus and enable breakthroughs in the field of human security.
However, Sino-US cooperation over human security and working toward the building of a community with a shared responsibility for human security is bound to be a complex and challenging process. The biggest obstacle is the tendency to overstretch, politicize and ideologize issues related to universal human security from the perspective of unilateral interests. It is impossible to isolate human security issues from national security, and it is also important to recognize that such issues go beyond political and national domains to some extent. Therefore, building a community with a shared responsibility for human security between China and the US will help to break free from the challenges facing the two nations in their traditional security relations while opening up new chapters and channels for security interaction. This will help guide the positive development of China-US relations toward the building of a global community with a shared future.
The author is head of college English teaching and research team at the University of International Relations. The author contributed this article to China Watch, a think tank powered by China Daily.
The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.
Contact the editor at editor@chinawatch.cn.
GAZA - Al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, said on Monday that it has informed mediators of its readiness to release 50 women and children hostages held in Gaza in exchange for a 5-day cease-fire.
Abu Ubaida, the spokesperson for Al-Qassam Brigades, said in a message on its Telegram channel that "Qatari mediators have made efforts to release Israeli detainees in exchange for releasing 200 Palestinian children and 75 women."
He stressed that the cease-fire should ensure a halt to hostilities and allow aid entry to people in the enclave.
He emphasized that the continued Israeli ground, naval, and aerial aggression threatens the lives of the detainees held by them and by other armed Palestinian factions in Gaza.
The Israeli military operations came in retaliation for the Hamas-led attacks on Oct 7, in which about 1,200 people were killed in Israel and about 240 hostages were taken, according to Israeli figures.
In the first three quarters, China's economy maintained a recovery trend, laying the foundation for achieving the annual economic growth goal of about 5 percent. However, the foundation for recovery still needs to be solidified.
To control their highest inflation over the past more than 40 years, the United States and some European economies sharply raised interest rates last year. That has produced serious negative spillover effects.
China has not adopted negative interest rates or zero interest rates, nor has it adopted excessive quantitative easing monetary policies. China's policymakers have focused on providing liquidity support and measures to promote growth. But due to the negative spillover effect of the US Federal Reserve's monetary policy, coupled with the scar effect brought by the three-year COVID-19 pandemic, developing economies, including China, have entered a low-price stage in their consumer markets.
In October, both the consumer price index and the producer price index of industrial products in China maintained negative growth, falling 0.2 percent and 2.6 percent respectively compared with the same period last year. The CPI and the PPI are leading indicators of the economy. In the seven months from March to October this year, China's CPI fluctuated within the narrow range of-0.3 to 0.3 percent, maintaining an overall low level since October last year.
Over the past year, China's PPI has been in the range of-0.7 to-5.6 percent. Although affected by the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the Palestine-Israel conflict, the overall PPI remains low, and its transmission mechanism to CPI, which takes about six months, is still not evident.
In particular, China's manufacturing purchasing managers' index remains below 50, the contraction-expansion line, a clear indication that China's economic recovery still needs to be further stabilized.
Relevant data also show the obvious impact the reduced real estate investment is having on related industries during the adjustment of the real estate industry.
Yet, with the development of the real estate industry gradually returning to normal, the new real estate development model will bring about the acceleration of the construction of government subsidized and affordable housing, and drive the economic recovery by gradually reinvigorating the upstream and downstream industries. That will provide more room for prudent monetary policy and proactive fiscal policy to ensure a healthy and balanced economic recovery while upgrading the economic structure.
Global supply chains have been subjected to multiple shocks over the past few years. The most notable one has been the three-year-long COVID-19 pandemic. The disruptions from the pandemic were compounded by the outbreak of military conflict between Russia and Ukraine in early 2022. The economic costs triggered by the disruption of food and energy supply chains are likely to increase because of the Israel-Palestine conflict now.
The Asia-Pacific region has been suffering from the above supply chain disruptions. It is also witnessing a rise in geopolitical tensions, arising out of the intense competition between the United States and China. The competition has resulted in the reorganization of several supply chains. These include those that have a direct impact on the national security of countries, such as semiconductors. It is important to note though that geopolitical impulses influencing supply chain shifts might not always work as intended.
Over the years, China has come to occupy a very important part in several global supply chains. In manufacturing supply chains, China has been a key source of raw materials, intermediates, and the assembly of final products. Over time, it has also become an important endpoint of various supply chains because of its growth as a major global consumer market. The dual significance of China makes it difficult to visualize supply chain strategies that can achieve economic decoupling from China and yet yield business outcomes that are efficient.
The Asia-Pacific has always been one of the most active regions of free trade agreements. ASEAN-specific FTA architectures have been the most prominent among these. The ASEAN's hub and spoke model has pulled ASEAN and its ASEAN+1 partners into region-wide FTAs. These include ASEAN's FTAs with Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea and India. The culmination of the ASEAN+1 FTAs has been the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership that has ASEAN and all its +1 regional FTA partners, except India. The RCEP is likely to enlarge over time by drawing in more partners from the region.
The ASEAN+1 FTAs, as well as the RCEP, have put in place tariff concessions, rules of origin for estimating value added for obtaining preferential tariff treatment, and cross-border service, investment and dispute settlement rules. These rules have significantly influenced the shaping of regional supply chains. The influence has extended to frameworks that connect the Asia-Pacific across wider geographical lengths.
Recent developments have led to the emergence of new frameworks. These include the "Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity" that is led by the US and includes its regional allies and strategic partners. The IPEF is a new and experimental approach on regional rule-making. It is focusing specifically on enhancing the resilience of supply chains. For doing so, it is proposing new multicountry mechanisms like sharing of critical information and developing capacities for enhancing resilience.
The IPEF is also focusing on identifying critical sectors and their supply chains for safeguarding against future disruptions.
There is no doubt that ensuring smooth functioning of supply chains is a global priority, particularly after the COVID-19 pandemic experience. One of the ways for making supply chains secure is to increase diversification in sourcing. If sourcing across important supply chains, such as semiconductors, food, energy, chemicals, automobiles etc. becomes more diverse, then it will be less vulnerable to risks because of supply disruptions in one or two sourcing locations. This will also ensure more stable health of the supply chains.
From an Asia-Pacific perspective, diversification and de-risking are important objectives to pursue. However, pursuing these objectives will require noting the roles being played by different existing regional frameworks in shaping supply chains. New frameworks like the IPEF need to note that their members are part of various existing trade frameworks such as the ASEAN+1 FTAs.
Given that the latter have also been contributing to the growth of supply chains through their own rules, it is important to ensure that the new and existing frameworks work in collaboration with each other. The IPEF, for example, need not be looked at as an alternative to the RCEP or other ASEAN+1 FTAs. They can work together in their own specific, as well as overlapping domains, for preserving supply chains, through their respective rules and regulations.
The author is a senior research fellow and research lead (trade and economics) in the Institute of South Asian Studies, National University of Singapore.
The views don't necessarily reflect those of China Daily.
The attacks on and in the vicinity of Al-Shifa Hospital, Al-Rantissi Naser Paediatric Hospital, Al-Quds Hospital, and other major medical facilities in Gaza City and northern Gaza, that have killed many, including children, over the past few days have horrified the world.
Premature and newborn babies on life support are reportedly dying due to power, oxygen, and water cuts at Al-Shifa Hospital, while others are at risk. Staff across a number of hospitals are reporting a lack of fuel, water and basic medical supplies, putting the lives of all patients at immediate risk, a United Nations report said.
With the intense hostilities preventing safe access for health staff, the injured, and other patients to major hospitals in northern Gaza, the joint calls of the regional directors of United Nations Population Fund, UNICEF and World Health Organization on Sunday for the world to give greater attention to the worsening humanitarian crisis in northern Gaza should not fall on deaf ears.
As around 100 Palestinian children are killed each day in the region, some Western countries that proclaim themselves to be champions of human rights are engulfed by large-scale protests against their government's complicity in prolonging the hostilities. These governments should waste no more time and help to broker a cease-fire as soon as possible by making full use of their influence on Tel Aviv.
Since the conflict broke out on Oct 7, the WHO has recorded at least 137 attacks on healthcare agencies in Gaza, resulting in 521 deaths and 686 injuries, including 16 deaths and 38 injuries of health workers on duty.
So far, more than half of the hospitals in the Gaza Strip are closed. Those still functioning are under massive strain and can only provide very limited emergency services, lifesaving surgery and intensive care services. Shortages of water, food, and fuel are also threatening the well-being of thousands of displaced people, including women and children, who are sheltering in hospitals and their surrounds.
Whatever the Israeli side's excuse, it should know that attacks on medical facilities and civilians are unacceptable and are a violation of International Humanitarian and Human Rights Law and Conventions. These moves cannot be condoned under whatever circumstances and the right to seek medical assistance, especially in times of crisis, should never be denied.
Unimpeded, safe and sustained access is needed now to provide fuel, medical supplies and water for these lifesaving services. Those supporting Israel's military actions should not stand silent. They should put aside all geopolitical considerations and their double standard, as decisive concerted action is imperative to secure an immediate cease-fire to preserve what's left of the healthcare system in Gaza.
A cease-fire is by no means a diplomatic statement. It is the only hope for the people of Gaza to survive, and a test of the world's conscience.
Massive protests calling for an immediate cease-fire were staged in Brussels and many other European cities on Saturday against Israeli military operations in Gaza that have triggered a humanitarian crisis.
An estimated 21,000 people turned out in Brussels despite rain, marching from the city's North Station to the Central Station, according to initial statistics by the local police.
"Cease-fire now!", "Free Palestine", "Stop the genocide" and "Boycott Israel" were some of the slogans shouted and on banners held by protesters.
Some held banners criticizing US and European Union leaders for their endorsement of Israel's actions and their persistent refusal to call for a cease-fire.
Many demonstrators waved Palestinian flags and wore kaffiyehs, or the black and white scarf symbolizing the Palestinian cause. Some held photos of children killed in Israeli bombings and some carried baby dolls covered in blood.
The organizers said there is "the urgent need to ensure that international law is respected … and demand an immediate cease-fire to save human lives".
"How can we defend the two-state solution while refusing to sanction the occupation and colonization (of Palestine) or refusing to recognize the state of Palestine now?" Simon Moutquin, a Green Party member of the Belgian Parliament, said in a message on X after attending the demonstration.
In London, organizers said 800,000 people took part in Saturday's demonstration and called it one of the largest demonstrations in British history, while the Metropolitan Police put the number at 300,000.
The protesters wanted to pressure British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and Labour Party leader Keir Starmer who have not supported the call for a cease-fire.
In Paris, thousands of people marched from the Place de la Republique toward the Place de la Nation on Saturday to demand an immediate cease-fire in Gaza.
French President Emmanuel Macron told the BBC on Friday that Israel must stop bombing Gaza and killing civilians, a message that most Western leaders have refused to express.
"De facto, today, civilians are bombed, de facto. These babies, these ladies, these old people are bombed and killed. So there is no reason for that and no legitimacy. So we do urge Israel to stop," Macron said.
"Macron finally uttered the word 'cease-fire' but France must speak with a stronger voice, especially in the UN Security Council in which it is a permanent member," said Mathilde Panot, an MP and leader of La France Insoumise group in parliament.
"France must apply as much pressure possible on Netanyahu's far-right government in order to stop war crimes," she said.
Agencies contributed to this story.