Relatives of hostages held in Gaza since Hamas’s October 7 attack on Israel set out Tuesday on a five-day protest march to Jerusalem to demand action to bring their loved ones home.
Hundreds of demonstrators were to make the 63km (40-mile) march from Tel Aviv to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office to demand “the immediate release of all the hostages”, the Hostages and Missing Families Forum said.
Formed in the wake of the October 7 attacks on Israel, in which Hamas militants killed around 1,200 people and kidnapped about 240 more, according to Israeli authorities, the group works to keep the spotlight on the captives’ fate.
Yuval Haran, whose father, Avshalom, was killed and whose mother, Shoshan, was taken hostage along with six other family members, was behind the march initiative, organisers said.
Portraits of the hostages adorned black T-shirts and posters as more than 100 relatives and their supporters set out from the square outside the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, the epicentre of the hostage protests.
“A deal for the hostages now,” read signs held by several demonstrators.
Recent days have seen reports surface about negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas.
Netanyahu raised the possibility of a deal to release the hostages in an interview with NBC on Sunday.
On Monday, Hamas’s military wing accused Israeli authorities of dragging their feet in Qatari-mediated negotiations about the possible release of dozens of hostages in exchange for “200 children and 75 women” held in Israeli prisons.
In a statement, the Forum demanded the government disclose what “demands” it has “placed on the table” as part of a deal to release all of the hostages held in Gaza.
Start your day with our briefing on business, politics and important news stories from Hong Kong, Asia, and beyond.
Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip has killed over 11,200 Palestinians, mostly civilians, including 4,630 children, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.
Europe will have “a lot of rivals” if it continues to conduct its foreign policy according to values, China’s ambassador to the EU warned on Tuesday.
Fu Cong railed against the bloc’s “mind-boggling” characterisation of Beijing as a “rival”, drawing on the Israel-Gaza war for illustration.
“Some will argue that China does not share EU values. If this logic follows, then the EU will have a lot of rivals,” Fu told an event hosted by the China Europe International Business School in Brussels.
The conflict has laid bare divisions inside and outside of the EU. While some member states have called for an immediate ceasefire, others have fully backed Israel’s right to defend itself. As a result, the bloc has struggled to construct a coherent joint response.
It has also left the EU open to accusations of hypocrisy from countries it cajoled to condemn Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Some European leaders have strongly condemned attacks on civil infrastructure in Ukraine as war crimes, but have been more reluctant to criticise Israel’s retaliatory bombing.
Last week during an address in Brussels, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen urged Beijing to do more to end the conflict.
“China and Europe have a shared interest in stability in the Middle East. So every measure of influence that Beijing has on Hamas and on Iran needs to be used to prevent further escalation. They have to play their role,” she said.
A weekly curated round-up of social, political and economic stories from China and how they impact the world.
A report last week by the Overseas Development Institute, an international think tank in London, said the perceived “double standards are plain to see for those in the Global South, and are a propaganda gift to countries such as Russia and China”.
In his speech, Fu also attacked the EU’s more muscular trade policy, which saw it launch an investigation into subsidies in China’s electric vehicle sector last month. Other investigations have been rumoured in industries ranging from renewable energy and steel to biofuels and medical devices.
“To many Chinese investors and long-term observers, the scope and the speed of the change in the EU is unprecedented,” Fu said, adding that the “perceived departure of the EU from a leader of world trade has sent shock waves through the Chinese business community”.
Addressing the event after Fu, the EU’s ambassador to China defended the bloc’s de-risking policy, saying it was much narrower than de-risking policies pursued by Beijing.
“Our de-risking is country-agnostic and only affects a small part of our trade. De-risking is not self reliance, one of China’s major economic strategies for decades,” said Jorge Toledo, who railed against last year’s “biggest trade deficit in history” between the EU and China.
Toledo also attacked what he described as Beijing’s “double standards” on Ukraine. Given that China’s own “territorial integrity is the reddest of lines ... it is very difficult for us to understand China’s double standards on Russia’s war against Ukraine, as it breaches China’s own fundamental principles,” he said.
“As China always advocates for each country to be free to choose its own development path, I can’t emphasise enough how damaging for China’s image and reputation in Europe is the position chosen in Beijing on the Russian war in Ukraine,” he added.
Meanwhile, a report has highlighted for the first time Chinese business concerns about de-risking, a policy designed to reduce Europe’s exposure to China in critical sectors and keep key technologies out of Chinese hands.
In a survey of 180 Chinese companies operating in the EU, 63 per cent said the approach was “posing challenges to their business operations”.
It said the problems were particularly acute for companies in the semiconductor and 5 and 6G sectors.
Overall, 43 per cent of Chinese businesses thought the business environment within the bloc had worsened over the past year, with 47 per cent saying the political environment is less favourable.
Despite that, returns remain good, with 90 per cent reporting revenue growth in 2022 up from 80 per cent a year earlier. In addition, 58 per cent expect further growth this year, up from 40 per cent in 2022.
Renewed fighting in Gaza may undermine the hard-earned gains in fostering peace in the Middle East. It may also hamper the region’s desire to transition from being a security minefield to a contributor in addressing global issues like climate change. The conflict will also stretch the diplomatic capacity of great powers, notably the United States and China.
Before the October 7 attack by Hamas, peace was gaining momentum. The US had promoted normalisation between Israel and several Arab countries and the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco established official ties with Israel.
Iraq, Oman and China played crucial roles in the Saudi Arabia-Iran rapprochement, with a domino effect on proxy wars throughout the region, from Lebanon and Palestine to Syria and Yemen. In September, Saudi Arabia invited Yemen’s Houthi negotiators to Riyadh to discuss a ceasefire with the help of Omani mediators. Russia is mediating between Turkey and Syria.
The director of Gaza’s biggest hospital said Tuesday that 179 people, including babies and patients who died in the intensive care unit, had been buried in a “mass grave” at the complex.
“We were forced to bury them in a mass grave,” said Al-Shifa hospital director Mohammad Abu Salmiyah, adding that seven babies and 29 intensive care patients were among those buried after hospital fuel supplies ran out.
“There are bodies littered in the hospital complex and there is no longer electricity at the morgues,” he said, as no fuel has entered the Gaza Strip since the Israel-Gaza war began on October 7.
Enoch, an Indonesian who calls Surabaya home, no longer wants to be openly identified as a Jew, explaining “Gaza changed all that” for him in a Southeast Asian country where a conflict 9,000km away has stirred protests and even a fatwa on Israeli goods.
Anti-Israel sentiments are on the rise in Indonesia – home to the world’s largest Muslim population – and where opposition to the actions of the Middle Eastern state has quickly segued into wider anti-Jewish feelings.
That is seeding fear among the nation’s small Jewish minority, many the descendants of Ashkenazi Dutch Jews and other Europeans who settled in the then Dutch Indies in the early 19th century.
Hong Kong goalkeeper Yapp Hung-fai has dismissed worries over visiting Iran, with the city’s footballers poised to begin their 2026 World Cup qualifying group campaign there on Thursday.
Head coach Jorn Andersen’s team start with a daunting fixture in Tehran before hosting Turkmenistan in So Kon Po five days later.
Tensions in the Middle East as a result of the Israel-Hamas conflict had raised questions over whether the Group E game should be moved, with Hong Kong football bosses acknowledging the situation was “complicated”.
But Andersen’s squad – although depleted by withdrawals including that of star forward Everton Camargo, through injury – were preparing to travel, with the experienced Yapp the latest of several players to declare their willingness to do so.
Yapp was interested only in how his team would acquit themselves against formidable opponents who will also feature in Hong Kong’s group at January’s AFC Asian Cup finals in Qatar. Iran are ranked No 21 in the world, to Hong Kong’s 150.
“There is no problem travelling to Iran,” Yapp said. “They [security officials in the country] will protect us.
“Iran are a top team in the world. How we cope will depend on how we manage the atmosphere and level of competition.
Yapp said his duel with Tse Ka-wing for the national No 1 jersey reflected the improving well-being of Hong Kong football, and emphasised the need for a regular diet of plum international fixtures to develop emerging talent.
Start your day with our briefing on business, politics and important news stories from Hong Kong, Asia, and beyond.
Tse, 24, pressed his claims for the senior gloves with a string of marvellous displays during the under-23 team’s recent run to the Asian Games semi-finals. Yapp, though, has 86 caps following a debut in 2010, and has been a virtual ever-present for a decade.
The 33-year-old remains undiminished and was flawless in club team Eastern’s impressive Senior Shield semi-final victory over BC Rangers on Saturday.
Yapp allayed concerns over a bang on the knee he sustained while shutting out Rangers, and was looking forward to renewing his friendly rivalry with Tse this week.
“I have a little bit of pain near my knee joint, but it is not serious, I will be fine for this week,” Yapp said. “The competition with Tse is good, and a healthier situation for the national team than previously.
“More young players have been coming through in the past two years, especially goalkeepers. We also have Ivan [Ng Wai-him, the 21-year-old Southern keeper]. They are pushing me, but I push them, too.
Yapp and Tse have played one match apiece in each of the past two international windows.
He added that he “hoped” he would eventually reach 100 caps, “but the number is not important, the team’s performance is all I care about”.
Yapp is closing in on the 10th anniversary of his second spell with Eastern, where he won the Premier League in 2016. He will have the chance to erase the painful memory of losing last year’s Senior Shield final on penalties to Kitchee when the teams meet again in this season’s showpiece in the new year.
“Eastern is like my family,” he said. “Not many clubs focus on the youth players and one of my jobs is to help them develop and mature. We have excellent coaching staff, and reaching finals shows we are going the right way.
Hamas’s military wing on Monday accused Israel of delaying over a prospective Qatar-mediated deal to release dozens of hostages they are holding in Gaza, as part of a prisoner swap scheme.
Abu Obeida, a spokesman for the armed wing of the Islamist movement said: “Qatari mediation has led efforts” to release 100 Israeli hostages in return for 200 Palestinian children and 75 women held in Israeli prisons.
“We informed the mediators we could release the hostages if we obtained five days of truce … and passage of aid to all of our people throughout the Gaza Strip, but the enemy is procrastinating,” he said in an audio statement.
Brazil’s president on Monday accused Israel of “killing innocent people without any criteria” in the Gaza Strip, deeming its actions there “as grave” as the October 7 attacks by Palestinian militant group Hamas.
“After the act of terrorism provoked by Hamas, the consequences, the solution of the state of Israel, is as grave as that of Hamas. They are killing innocent people without any criteria,” said Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva at an official ceremony in Brasilia.
US President Joe Biden urged Israel on Monday to protect Gaza’s main hospital as heavy fighting between Israeli forces and Hamas raged around the complex.
“It’s my hope and expectation that there will be less intrusive action relative to the hospital,” Biden told reporters in the Oval Office when asked if he had expressed concerns to Israel on the issue.
Israeli forces reached the gates of Gaza City’s main hospital on Monday, the primary target in their battle to seize control of the northern half of the Gaza Strip, where doctors said patients including newborn babies were dying for lack of fuel.
Gaza health ministry spokesperson Ashraf Al-Qidra, who was inside Al-Shifa hospital, said 32 patients had died in the past three days, including three newborn babies, as a result of the siege of the hospital and the cut-off of its power.
At least 650 patients were still inside, desperate to be evacuated to another medical facility by the Red Cross or some other neutral agency.
United Nations workers observed a minute’s silence on Monday to honour the more than 100 employees killed in Gaza since the Israel-Gaza war began last month as UN flags flew at half mast.
Staff at UN offices in Geneva bowed their heads as a candle was lit in memory of the 101 employees of UN Palestinian refugee agency (UNRWA) killed in the Israeli assault on the enclave following the deadly October 7 attack on Israel by Hamas militants.
“This is the highest number of aid workers killed in the history of our organisation in such a short time,” said Tatiana Valovaya, Director-General of the United Nations in Geneva.
China’s head of West Asian and North African affairs visited Iran over the weekend in a bid to boost ties and discuss the Israel-Gaza war.
Tehran said it hoped to “strengthen communication and coordination” with China to de-escalate the war in Gaza as Wang Di, director general for the region at the Chinese foreign ministry, met Iranian diplomatic officials on Saturday, according to the ministry. It was the first visit by a Beijing official to the country since the war began last month.
Wang reiterated Beijing’s stance on the war, saying there was an “urgent need for ceasefire” as the conflict had caused “large-scale civilian casualties”. He made the comments during meetings with Ali Bagheri, Iranian foreign ministry deputy for political affairs, and leaders of regional departments.
Five weeks after the Hamas attacks, the families and friends of Israelis taken hostage by the militant group are doing everything to ward off public fatigue and keep attention on their plight.
Hadas Kalderon’s daughter Sahar, 16, son Erez, 12, and ex-husband Ofer, 53, are among those believed to have been taken by Hamas to Gaza on October 7.
She has had to describe her nightmare “a hundred times”, she said.
US President Joe Biden spoke on Sunday to Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani about developments in Gaza and “urgent ongoing efforts” to secure the release of hostages being held by the Hamas militant group, the White House said.
Biden “unequivocally” condemned the holding of hostages by Hamas, including many young children, one of whom is a three-year old American citizen whose parents were killed by the group on October 7, the White House said in a statement.
“The two leaders agreed that all hostages must be released without further delay,” the statement said.
US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Monday left open the possibility of more strikes against Iran-linked groups if attacks against American forces in Iraq and Syria don’t stop, hours after overnight US air strikes in Syria.
The US military carried out its third air strike in as many weeks in Syria late on Sunday, targeting a training facility near the city of Albu Kamal and a safe house near the city of Mayadeen.
The strikes came after at least 40 attacks against US and coalition troops in Iraq and Syria by Iran-backed forces in recent weeks, as regional tensions mount over the Israel-Hamas war. At least 45 US troops have suffered traumatic brain injuries or minor wounds.
More than 180,000 people turned out on Sunday to march against antisemitism in France, after a surge in anti-Jewish incidents across the country in the wake of the Israel-Gaza conflict.
France has recorded nearly 1,250 antisemitic acts in recent weeks and President Emmanuel Macron – who did not attend on Sunday – condemned the “unbearable resurgence of unbridled antisemitism”.
“A France where our Jewish citizens are afraid is not France,” Macron wrote in a letter published on Saturday.
Militants fired anti-tank missiles on Sunday near the Israel-Lebanon border and hit a number of civilians, the Israeli military said, adding that it was retaliating with artillery fire.
An Israeli ambulance service spokesperson told Israel’s N12 News one person was critically wounded and between three to five others injured.
Israel media said several vehicles were hit in Israel. Videos circulating on social media showed cars on fire.
Tetiana Kocheva fled her home in Ukraine’s northeastern city of Kharkiv after Russia invaded last year, taking refuge in Israel’s coastal town of Ashqelon, near Gaza.
Her husband had worked in Israel in the past, and she thought taking their three children there – away from Russian attacks – would guarantee living in peace.
But then came October 7, when Hamas attacked Israel, leading to a war that has since killed thousands.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday that Israel had offered fuel to Gaza’s Al-Shifa hospital, which suspended operations after running out of fuel, but that the militants had refused to receive it.
Netanyahu was asked by NBC News whether Israeli allegations that Hamas had a command post under Gaza’s main hospital justified jeopardising the lives of sick people and babies.
“On the contrary, we offered actually, last night, to give them enough fuel to operate the hospital, operate the incubators and so on, because we (have) no battle with patients or civilians at all,” Netanyahu said.
Asia’s legendary appetite for gold is intact in the run-up to peak festival and wedding season, despite soaring prices due to the Israel-Gaza war.
Long considered a store of value, gold prices hit a five-month high on October 27 of above US$2,000 an ounce following the conflict in the Middle East, close to an all-time high. Prices have since dipped to US$1,950 as the safe haven rally has weakened.
“Buying sentiment is high as prices have come down a little. People are not sure when prices may rise again because of the war,” said Bachhraj Bamalwa, owner of the Kolkata-based Nemichand Bamalwa and Sons, a large gold and diamond retailer.