VLADIMIR Putin's gymnast lover has not been seen in public for three weeks following wild rumours the Russian president died.
As Russia's so-called "First Mistress", Alina Kabaeva, 40, lives a continuous life of glamour and mystery but has allegedly spent recent months holed up inside Putin's secret forest palace.
Since 2008, the brunette bombshell has been the target of sustained speculation that she is Putin's secret lover and the mother of his youngest kids.
The gymnast-turned-politician is now rumoured to be missing in the wake of last month's bizarre reports Putin had croaked.
Public appearances by the despot's young mistress halted in the last week of October - the same day the rumours broke that Putin had suffered a heart attack.
The woman that has never shied from the spotlight appears to have gone to ground.
FIRST MISTRESS? Mystery of Putin's vanishing gymnast 'mistress' after 'having his kids'
Since the claims of Putin's death - largely dismissed as conspiracy theories by analysts - swirled online, Alina completely disappeared from view.
Confirmed sightings of her then completely stopped on October 22 after an international tournament held at her academy.
Although she has previously had long absences from public life - she disappeared the same day that rumours of her alleged partner's death began spreading.
Claims first surfaced on the Telegram channel, General SVR, that the Russian leader had died at his Valdai palace, just north of Moscow, where Alina is alleged to live with their shared children.
The same channel, which claims to receive insider knowledge from Putin’s circle, says Putin's body doubles are now being coached in what to say and how to behave.
Several Russian and Ukrainian sources also allege that body doubles controlled by his senior apparatchiks and security henchmen are now parading around the Kremlin.
At the end of October, the Kremlin was forced to issue an extraordinary denial that their leader was dead, while Kyiv argued it was a purposeful test of his popularity.
According to General SVR, Putin’s corpse remains in a freezer at Valdai palace, while Kremlin crooks discuss whether to run his doppelganger at next year's election.
The channel claimed today: “In the coming days, special equipment will be delivered to the presidential residence in Valdai, in which, according to experts, Putin’s corpse can be stored for a long time."
Alina, who is 31 years younger than Putin, shot to fame as "Russia's most flexible woman" after picking up hoards of international medals for gymnastics in her teens.
She went on to win Gold at the 2004 Athens Games and Bronze at the 2000 in Sydney.
The now 40-year-old is one of most decorated gymnasts in history, with 2 Olympic medals, 14 World Championship medals, and 21 European Championship medals.
She would later lose six of her World Championship medals for doping.
Her celebrity status was fully secured after she posed naked for a men's magazine in 2004.
In heavy makeup and partially draped in fur, the nude sporting star smiled provocatively at the camera.
After retiring from gymnastics, Alina threw herself into a quickly-developed career in politics.
She became a member of the Russian Parliament between 2007 and 2014, representing the United Russia party and voting for various controversial anti-LGBT laws.
It was quite the career move for a woman who had dabbled in modelling and singing.
The Olympic legend was later appointed chair of Moscow’s most important pro-Kremlin TV and newspaper empire, National Media Group — despite having no experience.
'IDEAL MAN'
The brunette stunner was first linked to Putin in 2008 after a report in a Moscow newspaper run by media tycoon and former KGB spy Alexander Lebedev.
The despot was still married to his first wife at the time, Lyudmila Putina, whom he later divorced in 2014.
Putin quickly denied the claims and slammed “those who with their snotty noses and erotic fantasies prowl into others’ lives”.
Around that time they first met, Alina admitted on a kids TV show that she had found her "ideal man".
And without naming the Russian leader, Alina replied giggling: “I have met him" and added that she was “so happy”.
However, their alleged 15-year relationship has never been publicly acknowledged and Russian state media bans any mention of links between the two.
'RUSSIA'S FIRST MISTRESS'
Throughout the years, it appears that Putin's presumed lover has somewhat relished her role as "the uncrowned queen of Russia" - or at least enjoyed the gossip behind it.
While Putin was still married to his first wife and speculation was rife of an affair, Alina appeared at 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi wearing a wedding ring.
And by 2015, Alina already seemed to be living the life of a First Lady.
She was rumoured to have a fleet of limousines at her disposal — and during a visit to a Moscow cafe, a squad of machine gun-toting ­security guards accompanied her.
In 2016, Kabaeva appeared in public again wearing a ring on her ring finger.
In February 2017, Alina appeared to be showing off the ring at a gymnastics tournament, while rumours also swirled that she was hiding a baby bump.
A Russian newspaper then reported that the pair were engaged - but the story was denied and the paper was shut down by Kremlin authorities.
For years, Putin's supposed mistress enjoyed a life of luxury living in a mansion in Switzerland overlooking Lake Geneva bought for her and her children by the tyrant.
But since Russia's brutal and bloody invasion of Ukraine, Putin allegedly moved Alina and the kids into his heavily-guarded and gold-encrusted Valdai palace.
Unnamed officials claimed they had spotted kids on the premises of the luxurious mansion and satellite images taken between 2016 and 2020 showed a playground in the woods, which is believed to have been built for the family.
Rumours also briefly circulated that she had been shipped off to a nuclear bunker in Siberia for her protection.
Instead, she defied sanctions to wear a £2,000 British-designed dress as she hosted a Z-symbol parade in support of Russia's invasion of Ukraine in April 2022.
Then the glamorous former gymnast mostly vanished until June 2022, when she was pictured flanked by female bodyguards in St Petersburg.
Carrying a £4,220 Valentino Roman stud large bag, her security kept tightly around her amid ongoing rumours she was pregnant.
In March, a doctor was identified for the first time as the medical professional who had been with Alina as she gave birth to at least two of Putin's children, Russian investigative outlet Proekt claimed.
The intensely private and paranoid Putin could likely be the driving force behind Alina's disappearance from public view.
In March, a Kremlin insider claimed that a furious Putin blamed his lover's gossipy friends for leaking details of their plush lifestyle.
It followed an exposé of his secret life with Alina being exposed by the Russian investigative site The Project who discussed their life together in his secret palace on the shores of Lake Valdai.
The outlet claimed he bought her a property empire valued at £100million using a slush fund in Cyprus.
Telegram channel General SVR alleged that the revelations sparked a "furious" row between him and his mistress.
It claimed: "Putin said that he had 100 per cent information that the leak came from Kabaeva’s circle of friends.
"They say that no one has ever seen the president so furious."
In the days that followed, more claims emerged that Putin had introduced a vast no-go zone around Valdai palace - locking his alleged girlfriend further away from public life.
The vast new exclusion zone - larger than the Isle of Wight and the Mediterranean island of Malta - was enforced around the luxury residence.
Guarded by a federal security service, trespassers on the complex and exclusion zone face two years "correctional labour" and fines of up to £5,300.
A Moscow source previously told The Sun: “Putin is an intensely private man - he has been hiding his two adult daughters under fake IDs for years. Even now, though he talks about them occasionally, he never names them.
“If Alina gave birth to his children, her hiding away might be one of the strongest hints pointing to this.
In the meantime, the fate of Putin's alleged longest-running mistress remains unknown.
The babywear brand was initially a blanket business that Conor grew into a bear-themed clothing brand.
The entrepreneur invested £5k of personal savings to purchase the first order of blankets.
He stored all of the stock in his mum’s conservatory and was sending out an average of one to two orders a week.
Conor used the lockdown as an opportunity to “pour all of his effort and attention” into Cozy Crew Club.
The brand was particularly important to him as a member of the LGBT community, as he grew up wondering if he’ll “ever be able to have children”, so decided to make Cozy Crew Club his “baby”.
“We automatically had a huge growth spurt,” Conor says. “Within 24 hours of one share, we grew by 10k followers.
“We’ve had so much exposure from Molly-Mae,” Conor says. “One thing we really pride ourselves on is the quality of our products, and I think that’s why influencers share them.
“I’ve never paid for any collaborations because I truly believe our products, branding and message we have for mums is so strong.
Other celebrity customers include Made In Chelsea’s Tiffany Watson, ITVBe star and mum-of-three Billie Shepherd, and Hollywood’s Lindsay Lohan.
“We’re very bear-themed and it’s because I loved teddy bears as a kid,” he says. “Teddy bears have stuck with me ever since.
ANGRY protesters marched yesterday against a Coldplay concert in their city.
The band are due to play a stadium gig in Indonesia’s capital Jakarta on Wednesday.
But conservative Muslims claim their support of LGBTQ+ will corrupt the country’s youth.
Nearly 100 people chanted “We reject Coldplay” as they marched to the heavily-guarded British Embassy after Friday prayers.
Hery Susanto said: “We are here for the sake of guarding our young generation.
Protest co-ordinator Novel Bamukmin said if the gig was not cancelled, thousands of protesters would confront the band on their way from the airport.
Coldplay have 1.6 million fans in Jakarta and are on their Music Of The Spheres world Tour.
Lead singer Chris Martin has worn rainbow colours and waved Pride flags at performances.
Indonesia’s tourism minister Sandiaga Uno assured fans there would be no disruptions to the concert.
In July rock band The 1975 cancelled its show in Jakarta after the singer Matty Healy criticised Malaysia’s anti-LGBT laws, and kissed bass player Ross MacDonald on stage.
MORE than £10,000 of money from a taxpayer-funded group was blown on a Serbian drag festival called Dragoslavia.
The British Council granted the cash for the two-day LGBTQ+ event in Belgrade in June last year.
A total of £10,700 was awarded despite no British drag acts performing at the event.
It promoted 20 acts from what used to be Yugoslavia — Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovenia and North Macedonia — with the tagline Girls On Film.
The show drew a live audience of 300 while footage was watched by a few hundred on YouTube.
The amount spent on the show, which featured a British Council logo as part of its branding, was revealed after a written parliamentary question by Conservative MP Matthew Offord.
The British Council, a quango that promotes the UK abroad, was last year given a three-year £511million grant-in-aid settlement by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.
But it insists most of its revenue is generated through private contracts and its education operations.
The British Council said it was part of its programme to “build connections, under-standing and trust”.
DUSTIN Lance Black is an award-winning screenwriter and filmmaker from America.
On this side of the pond he is best known for being married to Olympic gold medallist diver Tom Daley — here we take a look at Black's career and net worth.
What does Dustin Lance Black do for a living?
Dustin is an American director, screenwriter, producer and LGBT+ rights activist, born on June 10, 1974 .
He has won multiple prestigious Hollywood awards for his work, including the 2009 Best Original Screenplay Oscar for the film Milk.
In his acceptance speech Black said: "When I was thirteen years old, my beautiful mother and my father moved me from a conservative Mormon home in San Antonio, Texas, to California, and I heard the story of Harvey Milk.
"And it gave me hope. It gave me the hope to live my life.
"It gave me the hope one day I could live my life openly as who I am and that maybe even I could even fall in love and one day get married.
"I want to thank my mom, who has always loved me for who I am even when there was pressure not to.
"But most of all, if Harvey had not been taken from us thirty years ago, I think he'd want me to say to all of the gay and lesbian kids out there tonight who have been told that they are less than by their churches or by the government or by their families, that you are beautiful, wonderful creatures of value and that no matter what anyone tells you God does love you, and that very soon, I promise you, you will have equal rights, federally, across this great nation of ours.
"Thank you. Thank you. And thank you, God, for giving us Harvey Milk.
POT LUCK Gordon Ramsay's rise from council estate to £610m that 6 kids 'won't see penny of'
Among other gongs, the script also won him a Writers Guild of America Award, a San Francisco Critics Circle Award, and an International Cinephile Society Award.
What were Dustin Lance Black's most successful films and how much did they make at the box office?
Dustin's career started with a number of shorts and features, which he wrote and directed, but were not given wide releases and didn't do big box office numbers.
His first film was a short named Something Close to Heaven, released in 2000, which centred on a young boy's sexual awakening, complicated by his mother's prostitution.
His second effort was a gay romance film called The Journey of Jared Price, which was also released in 2000.
In 2008 he co-wrote the movie Pedro with Paris Barclay about the first gay man to appear on an MTV reality show in 1994.
Unfortunately there is no box office information available for any of these films.
Dustin wrote a feature about the life and work of the first openly gay American politician, Harvey Milk — titled Milk — which was released in 2008 and met with critical acclaim.
The movie stars Sean Penn and was directed by Gus Van Sant.
Milk grossed $54.6million (USD) at the box office worldwide.
In 2010 Black wrote and directed Virginia, starring Jennifer Connelly, Ed Harris and Harrison Gilbertson.
It's about a sheriff's bid to join the state senate falling into jeopardy when his daughter becomes romantically entangled with the son of a psychologically disturbed woman he had a 20-year long affair with.
The film's worldwide lifetime total gross is $12.7million (USD)(£10.4million).
Dustin wrote the screenplay for the 2011 movie J. Edgar, a film starring Leonardo Dicaprio and directed by Clint Eastwood.
The plot revolves around former head of the FBI J Edgar Hoover looking back on his professional and personal life.
J Edgar grossed $84.9million (USD) (£69.6million) at the box office worldwide.
The most recent release Black has worked as a writer on is titled Rustin, directed by George C Wolfe.
The film is about the racism and homophobia American Civil Rights activist Bayard Rustin — who was an adviser to Martin Luther King Jr — faced as he helped to change the course of history.
There isn't any box office information available for this movie yet, as it was only released on November 3, 2023.
What is Dustin Lance Black's net worth in 2023?
Reports of Dustin's net worth vary, but not dramatically.
Some outlets estimate it as $6million (USD) (£4.9million).
However, CelebrityNetWorth claims Black is worth $10million (USD)(£8.2million).
MANY people choose to wear a poppy in November for Remembrance Day to show respect for the people who died fighting in WW1.
Here is the significance behind the purple poppy.
What does a purple poppy mean?
The purple poppy was created in 2006 in remembrance of the animal victims of war.
The Purple Poppy Appeal, which is organised by the War Horse Memorial, will give donations to charities like World Horse Welfare and the animal charity, Blue Cross.
The purple poppies are also sold through the charity Murphy's Army.
Since the charity became involved in 2016 it has helped to raise more than £75,000.
In 2022, the funds raised from Murphy's Army will go to the National Foundation For Retired Service Animals (NFRSA).
This is a newly set up foundation that promotes the care, well-being and welfare of retired service animals from emergency services like police, fire and prison services.
It will also be helping out the Hero Paws - Life After Service which helps support the services that employ working dogs in sectors like HMPS, Security, Conservation and Search roles.
Where can I buy a purple poppy for Remembrance Day?
The pin badges cost £3 if you order one from the War Horse Memorial shop.
They can also be bought directly at many garden centres, supermarkets, pet stores and equine centres.
The poppy's can also be purchased from the Murphy's Army website.
A range of purple poppy merchandise such as wrist bands and window displays are also available.
Badges and other products can be purchased from Ebay, but not all of these payments will go towards charity endeavours.
A Purple Paw badge - to commemorate all animal victims of human exploitation - can be purchased from the Animal Aid website.
What other colour poppies are there for Remembrance Day?
The red poppy is the traditional one and has been sold by the Royal British Legion for over a 100 years.
The charity says the symbol represents: "All those who lost their lives on active service in all conflicts; from the beginning of the First World War right up to the present day.
"It also honours the contribution of civilian services and the uniformed services which contribute to national peace and security and acknowledges innocent civilians who have lost their lives in conflict and acts of terrorism."
Red poppies are widely sold up and down the country but donations can also be made via the Royal British Legion's website.
The white poppy signifies a symbol of peace.
Members of the Women’s Co-operative Guild who had lost loved ones in the First World War first started them in 1933.
They were adopted by the Peace Pledge Union as their symbol of peace in 1936.
Symon Hill, Campaigns Manager at the Peace Pledge Union, told Metro: "White poppies are not a generic peace symbol.
"Nor are they a protest against remembrance.
"Quite the opposite: they are a symbol of remembrance for people who have died or suffered in war.
"That’s why we wear them on Remembrance Day.
"White poppies also represent a commitment to peace.
"This follows from remembering the horrors of war.
"We never say red poppies glorify war – we know many red poppy wearers share many of our values.
"Instead, we challenge ways in which remembrance is misused to promote a positive image of war or dodgy claims about what war has supposedly achieved."
White poppies can be purchased through the Peace Pledge Union website.
The black poppy was launched in September 2010 and was introduced to commemorate people of all nations of African, Black, West Indian and Pacific Islander heritage who contributed to war efforts.
The Black Poppy Rose website says: "A symbol that signifies pride, honour and glory, with the hope that future generations will be inspired by these largely untold historical legacies."
Black poppy pins, badges and wreaths can be bought through the Black Poppy Rose official website.
LGBT poet Laureate Trudy Howson introduced the concept of a rainbow poppyin 2016, however, it was welcomed with much controversy.
She said: "The rainbow poppy is a campaign I'm running to bring attention the brave soldiers who died for our country during WW1 at a time when their sexuality was criminalised."
Some critics claimed that this poppy disrespects the fallen soldiers as the red poppy represents all soldiers.
What is the rarest poppy?
The rarest poppy is one which commemorates the 100 years since the Armistice on November 11, 1918.
In 2019, poppies with a leaf embossed with gold writing were being sold.
They had "1918-2018" embossed in gold.
There was also an even more rare "khadi" poppy made from Indian linen.
It was created in honour of Mahatma Gandhi and to remember the 74,000 Indian servicemen who lost their lives in The Great War.
RISHI Sunak unveiled his vision for Britain today as MPs and peers packed into the grand House of Lords to hear the King's Speech.
At the state opening of Parliament, King Charles outlined the main laws Mr Sunak hopes to deliver in the next 12 months - including a ban on fags, a huge increase in North Sea drilling and a vape tax.
He also announced plans to outlaw hated drip pricing, where businesses such as Ryanair and easyJet fail to disclose hidden fees to customers.
The occasion was a last chance saloon for the PM to sell himself to Britain ahead of a showdown General Election next year.
But even ministers admitted the speech was "thin gruel" and "meh".
With the Tories trailing Labour by around 20 points in the polls, the stakes couldn't have been higher.
Mr Sunak is desperate to convince the electorate that his plan for Britain is far more enticing than Sir Keir Starmer's.
But he's running out of time to state his case.
A measly total of 21 laws were tee-d up by the King, including five carried over from the most recent Parliamentary session.
Fewer bills were announced today than at any Queen’s Speech for almost a decade.
A handful of the new laws have broad consensus across the Commons - including plans for a new Holocaust memorial in Westminster, stronger sentences for the Britain's most horrific criminals and new powers for police to retrieve stolen phones.
CERTAINLY a moment in history as King Charles III delivered the first King's Speech in 70 years, but not one that will go down in the annals of political bombshells.
Rishi Sunak will be praying that will not be his first and last legislative agenda unveiled as Prime Minister - but his odds are not looking great.
And from the measly 21 bills set out for the next 12 months, there was little really there to excite the Tory troops ahead of a brutal year of pre-election campaigning against a soaring Labour.
The PM had the mickey taken out him when he unveiled his tongue-twister slogan vowing "long-term decisions for a brighter future", but King Charles read out the election cry with his signature dead pan delivery.
The green-fingered monarch was also forced to read out a controversial massive increase in North Sea drilling as a flagship measure - but a policy that is likely to annoy as many voters as it wins over.
A smoking and vaping ban for kids, life sentences for sicko rapists and a sweeping clamp down on yobs may tee up the looming election battle - but all these measures were well trailed already.
The new football regulator was confirmed, and a green light for self-driving cars - but ministers and MPs were quick to lament “thin gruel” as time runs out for the Tories to turn around their fortunes.
All eyes will now turn to the Autumn Statement - with drum beat for tax cuts growing daily.
Calls for a big consumer friendly giveaway for MPs to sell on the doorstep will only grow louder now after a bit of a damp squib today.
Others are more controversial and were tailored to place clear blue water between the Government and Opposition.
Proposals for a new levy on e-cigs were buried in the small-print of today's King’s Speech and are likely to prove controversial.
Boosting North Sea oil and gas and a ban on local councillors taking foreign policy into their own hands and announcing boycotts of foreign states, were also among the contentious announcements.
Licences for oil and gas projects in the North Sea to be awarded annually. Seen as a key dividing line between the Tories and Labour.
Legislation to implement the CPTPP - an agreement to join the giant Indo pacific trade bloc alongside Canada, New Zealand and Japan.
Modernises regulation so firms can grow and boost competition in the UK.
Reforms including scrapping a law that means newspapers are liable to pay the legal costs for both sides in libel and privacy cases, regardless of who won.
Lays foundation for plans to bring together network and passenger services into a new public rail body.
Phasing out all tobacco sales in England and rules to regulate flavours and descriptions of vapes.
Reform leasehold by extending the standard term from 90 years to 990 and reduce ground rent to £0.
Legislation to set up a football regulator and licensing system under which clubs will have to operate.
Return of the bill to support construction of the new Holocaust Memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens near Parliament.
Plans to fine public bodies which initiate boycotts against foreign countries. Plan by Michael Gove aimed at boycotts of Israel.
Convicted rapists will have to spend their entire sentence in prison rather than be eligible for parole at the halfway point.
Force tech companies to inform the Home Office in advance of new security and privacy features they want to add - and to disable them if the Government objects.
Aimed at protecting public buildings from terrorism following the Manchester Arena attack. Certain venues will have to take steps to mitigate the impact of an attack.
Reforms to help crime victims and more minister control over release of dangerous offenders. Implementation of Jade's Law which will remove rights of parental responsibility from killers.
From a gold plated throne in the Lords Chamber, His Majesty said: "My government will, in all respects, seek to make long-term decisions in the interests of future generations.
"My ministers will address inflation and the drivers of low growth over demands for greater spending or borrowing.
"My ministers will put the security of communities and the nation ahead of the rights of those who endanger it."
The King added: "By taking these long term decisions, my Government will change this country and build a better future."
Notably, certain bills promised in the last State Opening of Parliament, which didn't make it to the statute book, were missing from this year's King's Speech.
The PM left out a promised ban on LGBT+ conversion therapy, gambling reform and the formation of a new regulator to ensure petrol stations don't rip off motorists by inflating prices.
Responding to the King's Speech in the Commons, Mr Sunak insisted he has "turned the corner" to "put the country on a better path".
He added:  "These immediate priorities are not the limit of our ambition.
"They are just the foundations of our plan to build a better future for our children and grandchildren, and deliver the change the country needs.
"With this historic King's Speech, we are rising to that challenge. We are changing our country for the long term, delivering a brighter future."
Sir Keir hit back, slamming the address as a "new low" that amounted to a "plan for more of the same".
He criticised the oil policy as a "political gimmick" which will "not take a single penny off anyone's bills".
"What we have before us is a plan for more of the same, more sticking plasters, more division, more party first, country second gimmicks and no repudiation of the utterly discredited idea that economic growth is something the few hand down to the many," the Labour chief said.
"They have given up on any sense of service."
Responding to the King's Speech, Becca Lyon, head of child poverty at Save the Children UK, said: "Welfare reforms that only focus on getting people into work, as mentioned in the King's Speech, would be the wrong focus at the wrong time.
"We are still in the midst of an appalling cost of living crisis and if the UK government is really interested in strengthening the social fabric of the UK, they should make sure those on the lowest incomes get more support.
"Universal Credit is failing families and the UK government must commit to raising benefits in line with inflation at the very least."
Smoking cigarettes will be banished in Britain for youngsters.
The PM will mount an historic crackdown on cigarettes by raising the legal age every year until there are no smokers left.
The new plans mean a 14-year-old today will never legally be sold a cigarette.
The tough new anti-smoking measures will see the smoking age increased by a year every year to eventually make it illegal for anyone to buy cigarettes.
The ban will be subject to a "free vote" in Parliament, meaning MPs won't be instructed how to vote by party enforcers.
But Labour has confirmed its aligned with the Government on the ban, so the new law should fly through Parliament.
New laws will give the green light to self driving cars and buses.
Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has said the technology will make our roads safer and boost jobs.
It's thought the introduction of the technology will create some 38,000 jobs in Britain and be worth £42billion to the economy.
The Government has confirmed that £100million was being provided to get the tech and infrastructure up and running.
Only features such as lane-keeping technology will be legal at first, with greater autonomy that allows the driver to check emails or watch TV coming in 2025.
It's also hoped that some buses and delivery vehicles will be able to operate without a driver at all by the same year.
The PM will try to prove he's tough on crime after the King announced a string of measures to keep society's monsters behind bars for longer.
The Bill will also make sure vile criminals who commit rape and other serious sexual offences face the full consequences of their actions and spend every day of their sentence behind bars, instead of being eligible for parole half way through.
Judges will also be given more powers to make sure criminals attend court when their sentences are handed down - so they are forced to hear directly from victims and enable victims' families to have true justice.
In a major win for Brits everywhere the police will be given new powers to retrieve stolen goods such as iPhones without a warrant.
Officers won't have to get permission from a judge to raid a property if they have reasonable proof stolen goods are inside.
The proof burden will include tracking apps such as Find My iPhone.
The Renters Reform Bill will be carried over from the last Parliamentary session into the new one.
The long awaited legislation will see hated section 21 no fault evictions eventually banned.
However, ministers haven't put a time frame on when the ban will actually come into force.
Other rules will also be introduced to crackdown on bad landords.
A new Private Renters' Ombudsman will be created to help private renters and landlords settle disputes quickly.
And tenants will be given the right to request a pet in their house.
Landlords will have to consider any request and won't be able to refuse it without a good reason.
In a major move to create distance between himself and Sir Keir, the PM will introduce a new law to boost the production of gas in Britain.
Big oil companies will be able to make yearly bids for licenses to drill in the North Sea.
The policy is designed to bring down prices and ensure Brits aren't dependent on foreign tyrants such as Mad Vlad Putin to provide vital gas and electricity.
The King today confirmed that his Government is going ahead with plans to create a new body to oversee the beautiful game.
The move, recommended by the fan-led review which was fronted by former sports minister Tracey Crouch, has cross-party support.
The Bill required to create the regulator - equivalent to Ofwat, which oversees the water industry - could be introduced before the end of the year.
But it will take some time for the legislation to be debated and passed. It is expected that only a framework will be in place in time for the start of next season, with the full regulatory body unlikely to start operating with full powers before 2025-26.
The Premier League, EFL and Football Association have all, with differing levels of commitment, resisted independent regulation.
But scandals such as the financial management at League One Reading have only strengthened the case that football is incapable of running itself properly.
OVER the years comedian John Bishop has become a much-loved British star.
With an army of fans, he has enjoyed a successful career as a stand-up comic, and is also an in-demand actor.
Who is John Bishop?
John Joseph Bishop was born on November 30, 1966, in Liverpool.
He is an English comedian, presenter and actor, who has starred in many high profile TV shows, including Doctor Who.
John is a keen footballer and played for non-league teams Hyde and Southport.
The comedian can often be found going on tour with his stand-up act.
How did John Bishop become famous?
John worked as a pharmaceutical rep prior to becoming a stand-up comedian in 2000.
His television debut came on Irish comedy show The Panel.
He then won the role of Rob Fitch in E4 teen drama Skins for seasons three and four.
What TV shows has John Bishop been on?
The comedian has had his own shows include John Bishop's Britain, John Bishop's Only Joking and The John Bishop Show.
POT LUCK Gordon Ramsay's rise from council estate to £610m that 6 kids 'won't see penny of'
He is also a regular panellist on Have I Got News For You and League Of Their Own.
John Bishop: In Conversation With... is John's talk show, which premiered in September 2016.
Broadcast on W, the TV channel formerly known as Watch, the first set of episodes saw the comedian interview the likes of James Corden, Charlotte Church and Lenny Henry.
John has also starred as Dan Lewis in Doctor Who.
In October 2022 he was a guest judge on ITV's Masked Dancer.
John has hosted a podcast called Three Little Words with fellow actor Tony Pitts since 2020.
Is John Bishop married?
John is happily married to his wife Melanie Bishop.
The pair split in 2000 for 18 months, which is when John started his comedy career.
They reunited after she turned up to one of his gigs and heard him telling jokes about her.
The pair have three sons: Joe (born 1994), Luke (born 1996), and Daniel (born 1998).
John has a family home based in Northwich, Cheshire.
In May 2018, John revealed he is "massively proud" of his sons.
He said in his acceptance speech for the Celebrity Ally Award at the British LGBT Awards: "Like all parents we have problems with them.
"One of my sons has a tattoo on his ankle that was meant to be Africa but looks like Australia, one of my sons mumbles and one of my sons is a gay man."
Who is Joe Bishop?
Joe Bishop is John's eldest son.
When he was 15, Joe was diagnosed with an autoimmune condition that has led to the deterioration of his hearing and progressive deafness.
The father and son duo appeared in a documentary together, John & Joe Bishop: Life After Deaf.
ALL 18 victims killed in the Lewiston mass shooting have been named as new information about suspected gunman Robert Card continues to emerge.
The twisted life of US Army Reservist and fugitive Card, 40, is coming to light as families in Lewiston, Maine mourn the loss of tragically young victims.
The massive manhunt for Card is nearing 48 hours, but police have rescinded their shelter-in-place order even as the search continues.
The Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife is prohibiting all hunting in the towns of Bowdoin, Lewiston, Lisbon, and Monmouth beginning October 28 at 12:01 am.
Eerie details on the suspect have come to light as it was revealed he stayed in a mental health facility this summer after hearing voices in his head, Maine state police said.
Now, sources say he also "interacted with conspiratorial content" online that included concerns over a financial crisis, LGBT issues, and gun rights, ABC News reports.
According to sources close to the matter, Card liked content on social media that involved the classified documents found at President Joe Biden's homes, conspiracies over the Covid-19 pandemic, and calls for the IRS to be abolished.
Card also interacted with commentaries claiming that Democrats interfered with the results of the 2020 presidential election, sources said.
The bombshell report comes after police found a cell phone and note after raiding Card's home, but did not explain what the note said.
Card's family acknowledged his stay in a mental health facility this summer but told the media that this was out of the ordinary for him.
“This is something that was an acute episode. This is not who he is,” his sister-in-law Katie O’Neill told CNN.
O'Neill also speculated that he could have been looking for his ex when he went on an alleged shooting rampage.
Victims who were inside Just-In-Time Recreation bowling alley and Schemengees Bar and Grille have all been named as the small community reckons with Wednesday's events.
Two of the victims were a 14-year-old boy Aaron Young and his father Bill who were bowling together as part of a league, family members told Reuters.
It was youth night at the alley when the gunman burst in with an AR-15-style rifle fitted with a scope and multiple magazines and opened fire.
The family then tracked his cellphone and located it at the bowling alley, Bill's cousin Kim McConville told NBC News.
"They're just innocent people out for a night of bowling," the heartbroken family member said.
"This was a children's event. Who expects a shooter to go into a children's event?"
Also in the alley was 73-year-old bowling instructor Bob Violette, who died valiantly defending children from the gunman, his family said.
"He loved those kids, all of them," his daughter-in-law Cassandra told The Sun Journal.
When the suspect entered the bar, he was also met with the heroic efforts of manager Joseph Walker who grabbed a chef's knife and sprinted at him to try and stop the madness, his father told NBC News.
But he was shot twice before he could ever get close.
"Joe was a great, great son, loving husband," Leroy, Walker's dad, said.
"He had two grandchildren and a stepson living at home with him.
"A hell of a loss for the community - It's still a nightmare."
Other named victims include Rob Morin, a local resident who was described as upbeat and kind, and Tricia Asselin, a 53-year-old part-time employee at Just-In-Time.
It's believed that Asselin was killed trying to run to the phone and call 911, which her mourning friends say comes as no surprise.
"She would've put herself in harm's way to help others," her friend Sarah Proulx exclusively told The U.S. Sun.
Two other victims are Steven Vozzella and Bill Bracket, who were both part of a crew of deaf people playing cornhole at the bar, ABC News reports.
Seven victims - one female and six males - were found at the bowling alley.
Another eight victims were found dead at Schemengees Bar and Grille - seven male victims inside the building and one male outside.
Three more people died at local hospitals, Maine State Police Colonel William G. Ross said.
Card's vehicle was found on the Kennebec River in Lisbon where he may have escaped on his 15-foot boat, police said.
Search crews have started to swarm the area, and divers started searching through the waters on Friday morning.
Lewiston is the second-largest city in Maine, but still only has a population of around 28,000 people.
The US Army's public affairs office at the Pentagon confirmed that Card was a sergeant first class in the Army Reserve and trained as a petroleum supply specialist, which involves shipping and storing fuel for military vehicles and aircraft.
He enlisted in December 2002 and has no combat deployments.
HARRY MAGUIRE has sparked a backlash for claiming England boo-boys are not "proper fans".
The Manchester United defender has previously been targeted.
And Jordan Henderson was jeered in the games against Australia and Italy for his Saudi Arabia move.
Maguire, 30, said: "Proper England fans don’t boo players.
"Don’t boo players who dedicate their life to play and do everything they can to make this country have good memories and special moments for them and the fans and their families.
"I know a lot of top, top England fans and I know the England fans who have been with me ever since my debut.
"They’re right behind me and they’re right behind Jordan as well. You heard a lot of cheers and yes, a few jeers, but they aren’t England fans."
But England’s LGBT+ supporters’ group says Henderson should not be surprised by the boos.
Henderson had been a strong backer of the LGBT+ community but then moved to Saudi Arabia, a country where homosexuality is illegal and there are poor human rights.
A spokesman for Three Lions Pride said: "To say fans who follow this team loyally home and away, and at great personal expense, are not ‘proper’ fans gatekeeps the game.
TOUCHING TRIBUTE Bobby Charlton's grandson melts hearts with stories of beloved 'grandpa'
"Gatekeeping football to what a player believes makes a ‘proper’ fan harks back to a time where LGBT+ fans weren’t welcome and excludes people from the beautiful game.
"Fans are the soul of the game — without us there is no atmosphere.
"Booing is never something that fans wish to do to their own team but it is indicative of the strength of feeling around this issue and Henderson’s choices.
"It is clear that it is not just LGBT+ fans who think that he is a Saudi sell-out.
"How else would Maguire like fans to register their distaste?"
Meanwhile, one fan wrote on X, formerly Twitter: "Oi, Harry Maguire, chill out, mate. It's football, not high tea with the Queen. Some fans boo, get over it."
Another supporter also added: "If you expect all the praise and admiration when things are going well, then expect the proportionate criticism and ridicule when they aren’t.
"His performances haven’t proved anyone wrong this season."
A LITTLE-known fund is offering up to £500 to help those fleeing domestic violence.
TSB's "flee fund" offers existing TSB customers up to £500 to escape an abusive situation, with £356 being provided on average so far.
Domestic abuse is a pattern of controlling and abusive behaviour, which can include physical, emotional, sexual and financial abuse.
The bank introduced the scheme in December 2022, with TSB branch staff also receiving specialist training to spot signs of domestic abuse and to help survivors.
TSB said that 136 people have accessed its fund in 10 months since launch, with 48 of them, or roughly 35%, having one or more children.
The fund is there to assist people with the cost of essentials such as travel, clothing and toiletries and victims can ask for help in a branch and over the phone.
YOU'RE KIDDING British Gas makes ANOTHER payment method change - dubbed 'perverse'
To prevent abuse from reaching bank customers, the bank also blocks abusive and threatening terms from being sent to payees.
TSB is also now extending the scheme to staff affected by domestic abuse.
The bank's Colleague Flee Fund provides financial support to assist individuals with the cost of essentials that may be barriers to leaving an abusive relationship.
To access the fund, staff can speak in confidence to their manager or HR, as well as by visiting a TSB branch.
Katie Osiadacz, head of responsible business at TSB, said: "We have seen first-hand the impact our Emergency Flee Fund plays in helping survivors of domestic abuse take urgent action to escape their abusive and dangerous situation."
Farah Nazeer, Women's Aid chief executive said: "Emergency funds are desperately needed by those seeking to leave their abusers, especially now, given the additional challenges presented by the cost-of-living crisis.
"Through our work with survivors, we constantly hear about the economic barriers preventing them from fleeing their abusers.
"Women and their children are often faced with insecurity – they either face homelessness or must rely on the circumstances of family and friends to be able to put them up for short periods of time."
The update comes months after Home Secretary Suella Braverman announced a £300,000 pot in a pilot scheme to help women in England and Wales.
The fund was set up following a Sun campaign, and Spice Girl Mel B hailed it a life-saver at the time.
Abuse survivors were able to apply for up to £500 in cash or voucher payments through the charity Women’s Aid.
However, this funding has now run out and Sun Money is calling for the scheme to be renewed.
Ministers hope that the fund will be extended by the government when the pot runs dry.
What other support and advice is available?
If you're not sure whether you're actually being abused, you can call the National Domestic Violence Helpline.
This is available on 0808 2000 247 in England, 0808 801 0800 in Wales, 0800 027 1234 in Scotland and 0808 802 1414 in Northern Ireland.
There's also the National LGBT and Domestic Abuse helpline on 0800 999 5428.
The Men’s Advice Line, for male domestic abuse survivors, can also be reached on 0808 801 0327 and is run by Respect.
Boris Johnson launched a scheme back in 2021, where victims "Ask for Ani" - meaning 'Action Needed Immediately'.
It's is a codeword scheme that enables victims of domestic abuse to discreetly ask for immediate help in participating pharmacies and Jobcentres (Jobs and Benefits Offices in Northern Ireland).
Over 5,000 pharmacies, including Boots, Lloyds and community pharmacies, are now enrolled in the scheme.
Of course, if you find yourself in an emergency, you should always call the police on 999.
BIG Brother's Paul has come under fire after the housemates discussed the idea of "Straight Pride".
The row kicked off after a chat between Paul, Matty and Olivia on the ITV show's overnight live stream.
Viewers were quick to flock to social media to slam Paul's comments about the pressure he felt as a 'straight male' in a discussion with housemate Matty.
Whilst the clip wasn't included in the main show, fans debated the conversation on X, previously known as Twitter, Reddit and online forums.
One wrote: "At first I thought there might be a strong age divide this series, but anyone watching live feed might’ve heard Paul and Olivia moaning about the lack of “straight pride” and arguing that it’s harder to be straight nowadays?
"I can’t help but wonder if we’ll hear more of their (awful) opinions as the series progresses… and whether there may be potential clashes with LGBT+ housemates?"
A second wrote: "Why aren't they showing Paul asking about straight pride?"
A third questioned: "They gonna show Paul expressing his straight pride or keep that bit out I wonder?"
Another felt that Paul's comments will lead him to be evicted from the show.
They said: "Surely Paul will be up this time. I saw tweets about him going on about straight Pride."
A spokesperson for ITV denied that Paul called for 'straight Pride week' saying his comments were part of a wider discussion with Matty.
Paul hails from Liverpool and is a 23-year-old security officer.
He described himself as "extroverted to say the least" and a "bit nuts".
Asked why he signed up for the show, Paul said: "We'll see about that one, I'm a scouser so we'll see!
"I just always watched it with my mum and everyone said I should apply, so I did and now I’m here."
The backlash against Paul's comments comes as evicted housemate Farida Khalifa has exposed a growing connection between him and Olivia.
In a chat on Big Brother's Late & Live on ITV2, Farida revealed that there is obvious chemistry between the two.
She was asked by the show's host, Will Best, whether she saw any "couples forming", where he then suggested Olivia and Paul.
Farida agreed and went on to say: "You can feel the chemistry between them.
"They are playful. Flirty. Definitely, that is going to develop."