The victory of incumbent President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the Turkish presidential runoff met societal needs at home and points to stable policies in foreign relations.
Erdogan, of the Justice and Development Party, also known as the AK Party, aligned his interests with Turkiye's strongest nationalist party, the Nationalist Movement Party, which got 10 percent of the votes in the May 14 parliamentary elections.
He also aligned with Sinan Ogan, who had won 5.3 percent of the votes in the first round of presidential elections on May 14.
Erdogan was reelected with almost 28 million votes of the 54 million total, or around 52 percent, while opposition leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu of the Republican People's Party, received almost 48 percent of the votes, amounting to nearly 26 million in total. Considering most opposition members thought that Kilicdaroglu was going to be elected with 54 percent of the votes in the first round, it ended as quite a significant defeat.
Erdogan's other small partners included the New Welfare Party, Great Unity Party, Democratic Left and Free Cause Party — each of which had picked up a small percentage of the parliamentary vote.
Kilicdaroglu of the CHP officially collaborated with the Good Party, which won 9 percent of parliamentary votes along with smaller parties — Felicity Party, Democrat Party, Democracy and Progress Party and Future Party.
Kilicdaroglu also unofficially received support from the Party of Greens and the Left Future, the Turkish Communist Party and other small partners. The Victory Party also backed Kilicdaroglu, not Erdogan, in the runoff stage, despite supporting Ogan in the first round.
Erdogan's coalition only inducted the New Welfare Party and the Free Cause Party, which hold contradictory views on social and women's rights as well as issues such as gambling and the death penalty.
Kilicdaroglu's coalition included former compatriots of Erdogan's — his former prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu of the Future Party and former deputy prime minister Ali Babacan of the Democracy and Progress Party.
The rivalry between Davutoglu and Babacan is deep, and it almost derailed their support for Kilicdaroglu. Their parties only backed him two months before the presidential election.
In March, at the outset of the presidential campaign, Meral Aksener — the leader of the Good Party — left the opposition coalition. She rejoined the six-party alliance days later but the damage was done.
Since then, the opposition did not stand together to fight the election. Aksener was persuaded to rejoin on the condition that Istanbul Mayor Ekrem Imamoglu and Ankara Mayor Mansur Yavas would be vice-presidents, but this hurt the other partner parties, which had their eyes on these roles.
Why did the opposition expect such a victory when most of the polls portrayed a very close call for Erdogan and Kilicdaroglu, even suggesting a runoff?
The opposition seems to have succumbed to the idea that economics was more than enough to ensure a landslide in elections. However, the Turkish political sphere is much more complex than economic parameters such as inflation and interest rates.
Most of the opposition was heartbroken and angry, since they could not snatch a first election victory in over two decades. Some opposition members channeled this anger toward Kilicdaroglu, asking him to resign immediately. Others simply insulted Erdogan's voters and claimed that they were illiterate, ignorant and blind.
However, a very small section of the opposition asked the right question, about what they did wrong.
One of the opposition's main mistakes was relying on February's deadly earthquake and economics to defeat Erdogan. Second, no clear-cut political and economic strategies were made public to solve the issues that Turkish citizens are facing. People were not convinced that the opposition would be able to attract capital and reduce the economic pressure of daily life.
There are very important insights to be generated from this election, for a better understanding of Turkish society.
First, it sincerely cares about nationalism and security, both internally and externally.
Second, voters do not actually want to see a party that has embedded relations with terrorist organizations such as the PKK and YPG.
Third, Turkish society wants to protect its conservative fabric and does not have an open-door policy for LGBT demands.
Fourth, the individuals do not want to return to a Turkiye where the state asks for funding from international fund providers such as the International Monetary Fund.
Fifth, and maybe most important, society demands a very strong character to represent them in the international arena.
All these causes and conditions have been the main course of action for the People's Alliance that supported Erdogan, and it seems to have paid off very efficiently.
Regarding international affairs, there is not going to be a drastic change in Turkish foreign policy, as Erdogan remains president. However, Turkiye will be dealing with severe economic pressure from the West as payback for this victory. That is almost certain.
The author is a research assistant at the Middle East Institute of Sakarya University in Turkiye. The views do not necessarily reflect those of China Daily.
According to the latest conscription regulations of the US Air Force, the body fat rate for male recruits is capped at 26 percent, and 36 percent for women. The previous limits were 20 percent and 28 percent respectively.
In the United States, men with more than 25 percent body fat and women with more than 32 percent body fat are classed as obese.
The US military previously relaxed the body fat requirements for recruits in 2007, which led to an additional 15,000 recruits that year.
The US military's shortage of troops has not improved in recent years, but has worsened. One reason for this is the coronavirus pandemic, which has led to an increase in obesity among young Americans.
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, 18 percent of the US Army was obese. In 2021, 23 percent of the US Army was obese.
By the end of fiscal 2022, the US Army will have 466,400 troops, down from an expected 485,000. And the US Army is expected to remain 28,000 short of its target in 2023. The US Air Force and US Navy have barely made it through the recruiting process.
Besides, the status quo of the US military has also discouraged young people from joining the army. For example, sexual harassment and sexual crimes in the US military are particularly serious. In fiscal year 2021, the Department of Defense received 8,866 reports of sexual assault by US military personnel, 13 percent more than the previous fiscal year. According to a 2021 RAND Corporation report, it is estimated that one in 16 women in the US military have been sexually assaulted, and one in four have experienced sexual harassment.
The US military used to practice a policy of "don't ask don't tell" on sexual orientation. If members of the LGBT community in the US military are open about their sexual preferences, the risk of sexual harassment and abuse in the armed forces will increase dramatically.
In addition, it is worth noting that the various branches of the US military emphasize the difficulty of conscription out of the consideration of funds. For example, the US Air Force offered to help pay off $65,000 in student loans. That's a good reason for it to ask Congress for money to help fill up the 10 percent gap in US Air Force's conscription.
The terrorist attacks on Sept 11, 2001, pushed the military enthusiasm among young Americans to a peak. But now people's zeal to serve the country has long gone, as besides the aforementioned reasons, they are also increasingly fed up with the US' warmongering policies and practices around the world and realize that they would be serving the narrow ends of a few politicians, not those of the nation.
When Qatar kicked off the FIFA World Cup on Sunday, the spectacular opening ceremony in Doha had to compete for global attention with the yearslong criticism by the West of the Arab nation on issues such as alleged human rights abuses and, days out from the event, a ban on alcohol at the venues.
Many observers have called the barbs directed at the host nation — before and after the glittering ceremony — unacceptable, racist, and even Islamophobic. Over the years, Qatar had endured calls in Europe for a boycott of the World Cup on the supposed rights concerns. And as soccer's showpiece event approached, some major media outlets in the West intensified their negative coverage.
"The sentiment here in Qatar (is) there has been a gross level of hypocrisy and disingenuousness (in the West) about why Qatar has been granted this prestige of holding the FIFA World Cup," Farhan Mujahid Chak, associate professor of political science at Qatar University, told China Daily.
"Now, what's very jaded about that entire conversation is that it's almost as if there's an assumption that (Qatar) doesn't deserve it. And that's extremely unsettling for a lot of people," said Chak, adding that the "hypocrisy of Western countries" was becoming "blatant, racist, Islamophobic and absolutely unacceptable".
As part of the broad sweep of allegations of rights abuses, the country's critics have focused on what they said were the poor labor conditions for migrant workers involved in the construction of the tournament's stadiums and the host nation's divergent views on the LGBT community.
The sustained criticism has prompted some celebrities, business owners, and European countries to shun telecasts of the World Cup games, Britain's Daily Mail newspaper reported.
Gokhan Ereli, Gulf Studies coordinator at the Center for Middle Eastern Studies, in Turkiye, said Qatar's hosting of the World Cup "introduces the country to the world in general" and "brings it to the fore in the Gulf and the Middle East".
Partners in the Gulf and the Middle East "should support this, and international actors should recognize this with respect", he told China Daily.
During a news conference on Saturday, FIFA President Gianni Infantino hit out at Qatar's critics, saying Europeans "should be apologizing for the next 3,000 years" to migrant workers "before starting to give moral lessons to people". He also characterized the "one-sided, moral lesson-giving" as "just hypocrisy".
The International Labour Organization said earlier this month that after a period of "intense negotiations", Qatar and the agency have agreed on a program to support major labor reforms.
"I think the FIFA president summed it all well with his latest statement. What seems to anger people in Qatar is a sense that there is a higher standard imposed on an Arab-Muslim country at this World Cup, (and is) considered to be either hypocritical or racist or both," Rasha Al Joundy, a Gulf expert at the Dubai Public Policy Research Centre in the United Arab Emirates, told China Daily.
Qatar is being denied its accomplishments in hosting the World Cup, according to Al Joundy.
"Even when Qatar allowed Israeli flights and declared that everyone is welcome, it was still criticized. Therefore it seems as if there is a rejection in some Western spheres and media outlets of a successful Qatari World Cup," she said.
The Organization of Islamic Cooperation, meanwhile, has hailed Qatar's hosting of the extravaganza and emphasized the role of sport in promoting peace, solidarity, social cohesion and socioeconomic development.
Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby admitted that maintaining unity in the Anglican communion has proved "very difficult", after a major church conference became embroiled in controversy over the issue of same-sex marriage.
Welby, who is the senior cleric in the Church of England, had hoped that a compromise on the church's stance on gay marriage would appease both bishops who are against it and those for it during the Lambeth Conference, which came to a close on Monday. The top-level meeting occurs once a decade, and this year, more than 650 bishops met to debate unity and identity among Anglicans.
In a statement to the bishops, who represent around 85 million churchgoers worldwide, Welby upheld a 1998 declaration that same-sex relationships are "incompatible with scripture" and that rightful marriage is "between a man and a woman". But he also stated that Anglican leadership would take no steps to reprimand congregations that chose to offer same-sex unions.
The church's reaffirmation of the 24-year-old declaration caused a public backlash and derailed Welby's efforts to focus the conference on other key issues, including climate change and wealth inequality.
British broadcaster and activist Sandi Toksvig called the decision a "shocking statement of exclusion" and said that discrimination and homophobia are linked to high rates of self-harm and suicide.
"This is a serious matter. The lives of LGBTQ+ people are at stake here," Toksvig wrote in an open letter.
Toksvig said that the church's stance against same-sex marriage would encourage conversion therapy, which is a practice that attempts to change people's sexual orientation.
In reply, Welby said that the church "vigorously opposes conversion therapy".
"The hatred and threats that you and so many in the LGBTQI+ people have experienced in the name of Jesus Christ are a sin," Welby wrote on Twitter.
"The Anglican Communion is a complicated global group of churches. We can talk about this when we meet."
The issue has highlighted a deep division within the church. Welby has previously estimated that 90 percent of Anglicans are conservative on the subject of same-sex marriage, and the church's leadership was forced to abandon plans to allow gay bishops to bring their spouses to the Lambeth Conference for the first time this year after numerous bishops threatened to boycott the event.
Meanwhile, following the reaffirmation of the declaration, a faction of bishops issued a statement saying: "LGBT+ people are a precious part of God's creation …We wish to affirm the holiness of their love wherever it is found in committed relationships."
As of Monday, 164 bishops had signed the statement.
BUDAPEST - Visiting French President Emmanuel Macron and his host, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban, emphasized partnership but acknowledged their differences in a joint press statement delivered here on Monday.
Last week, Macron described Orban as a "political adversary but a European partner" with whom it was possible to find compromise.
Orban, who opened Monday's press event, quoted Macron's words and assured him that his government also considered European partnership of utmost importance.
Thanking Macron for his visit, Orban recalled that the last time a French president traveled to Hungary was in 2007.
"Hungary's relationship with France is based on respect," Orban said, listing three major areas where there was agreement with the French president.
"We both love our country, we are working to strengthen Europe and we have set ourselves the goal of creating strategic autonomy for Europe," Orban underlined.
"We support the policy of common European defense capabilities, nuclear energy and a strong European farming sector," he said. The two countries' economies both depend heavily on nuclear power and Budapest and Paris are pushing the EU to promote nuclear energy and recognize it as a green investment.
The French president said the two countries agreed on the need for a strong Europe.
Macron's visit came on the eve of France's takeover of the six-month rotating Presidency of the Council of the EU on Jan 1, 2022.
"We will have the opportunity to exchange views on the digital transition," which is an important ambition of the French Presidency, Macron said, stressing the importance of dialogue on contentious issues. The current sources of disagreement and tension between the two leaders include LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) rights and migration.
On the latter issue, Macron said that Europe will have to come up with a new initiative and that he will discuss this in detail with Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki during their scheduled meeting later in the day.
"We need to think together as Europeans in order to find solutions for defending our borders in a more effective way, and we also need to think about ways of taking joint action," he said.
According to the European Commission, Hungary fails to uphold EU standards on the rule of law and democracy, a charge denied by Budapest.
In Budapest, Macron was scheduled to attend a meeting of the leaders of the Visegrad Group of countries (Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia), and to meet the leaders of Hungary's opposition parties.
NEW YORK - A record 5.6% of Americans - or 18 million people - are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, a Gallup poll found on Wednesday, attributing a significant increase to greater social acceptance.
The 2020 survey showed a 24% rise from the last poll in 2017, when 4.5% of adults identified as LGBT+. The increase was largely driven by Generation Z adults - aged 18 to 23 - 15.9% of whom said they were LGBT+.
"At a time when Americans are increasingly supportive of equal rights for gay, lesbian and transgender people, a growing percentage of Americans identify themselves as LGBT," Gallup said in a blog post.
The 2020 US election saw Pete Buttigieg run as the first openly gay presidential candidate and LGBT+ candidates scored numerous historic wins, including Sarah McBride as the first openly trans state senator.
Support for same-sex marriage, legalized in 2015 and largely seen as synonymous with backing for LGBT+ rights, has risen to 62% of Americans, according to the Public Religion Research Institute, compared with 36% in 2007.
The majority of LGBT+ Americans - 54.6% - identify as bisexual, Gallup found, while 24.5% said they were gay men, 11.7% lesbian and 11.3% trans.
The pollsters surveyed a random sample of 15,000 Americans throughout 2020 by telephone and found that 86.7% identified as heterosexual, while 7.6% declined to answer the question, up from about 5% in previous Gallup surveys, which began in 2012.
There were marked differences between the generations. Older people were far less likely to consider themselves LGBT+, with the lowest percentage - 1.3% - among those born before 1946.
Women are more likely to identify as LGBT+ than men, at 6.4% compared with 4.9%, researchers found, while 13% of political liberals said they were LGBT+ versus 2.3% of conservatives.
A similar trend has been witnessed in Britain, where the proportion of people who identify as lesbian, gay or bisexual increased to 2.2% in 2018 from 1.6% in 2016, according to government data.
WASHINGTON - President Joe Biden on Monday overturned a controversial ban by his predecessor on transgender individuals serving in the US military, a move that fulfills a campaign promise and will be cheered by LGBTQ advocates.
Former Democratic President Barack Obama in 2016 allowed trans people to serve openly and receive medical care to transition genders, but Republican President Donald Trump froze their recruitment while allowing serving personnel to remain.
"President Biden believes that gender identity should not be a bar to military service, and that America's strength is found in its diversity," the White House said in a statement.
"Allowing all qualified Americans to serve their country in uniform is better for the military and better for the country because an inclusive force is a more effective force. Simply put, it's the right thing to do and is in our national interest," it said.
When Trump announced the ban in 2017 on Twitter, he said the military needed to focus on "decisive and overwhelming victory" without being burdened by the "tremendous medical costs and disruption" of having transgender personnel.
A November 2020 report by the LGBT-rights think tank the Palm Center co-written by former military Surgeons General said the transgender ban had hurt military readiness.
During his confirmation hearing, Biden's pick to lead the Pentagon, Retired Army General Lloyd Austin, said he supported overturning the ban.
The US Supreme Court ruled that the Trump transgender policy of 2019 could stand while it faces separate lawsuits in lower courts.
About 1.3 million active personnel serve in the US.
military, Department of Defense data shows. There are no official figures on the number of trans members but the Rand Corp, a US policy research institute, estimated in 2016 about 2,450 active service members were transgender.
'COUNTING DOWN TO THIS DAY'
While advocates applaud Biden's move, the fact that any president can decide whether transgender people can serve in the military is problematic, they say. Any American who is fit and able should have the right to serve, they argue.
"We must make sure that future presidents do not backslide on our values of equality and inclusion, and I intend to add a provision to this year's defense policy bill to secure a permanent policy of nondiscrimination for our armed forces," said Congresswoman Jackie Speier, Chair of the House Armed Services Military Personnel Subcommittee.
Nic Talbott, a transgender man, was forced to drop out of the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) due to Trump's ban. On Monday, he said Biden's move had given him and other transgender people an opportunity to once again join the military.
"This is such a huge relief, such a huge weight off my shoulders," Talbott said.
"I know there are thousands of other people out there just like me who have been counting down to this day, waiting to be able to start our careers and start our lives."
Once the order is implemented, Talbott said he plans to enter another ROTC.
LONDON－England manager Gareth Southgate said Greg Clarke had no option but to resign as Football Association chairman after making a series of inflammatory remarks when giving evidence to lawmakers on Tuesday.
Clarke, 63, resigned just hours after he referred to black players as "colored", claimed the lack of soccer players of South Asian origin was due to "different career interests", described being gay as a "life choice" and that girls were often put off playing the game because they did not want to be hit hard by balls.
Southgate's England side has taken a strong stand against racist incidents. A Euro 2020 qualifier in Bulgaria last year was twice stopped by the referee after racist abuse was directed toward England players.
"I think as he said himself the terminology he used in a number of areas was not acceptable," Southgate said on Wednesday.
"It doesn't reflect the view of the FA, doesn't reflect what we as a team stand for. I don't think he had any alternative but to take the decision he did to resign."
The FA has been challenged by a series of former players and administrators to prove it is serious about diversity in its process for appointing Clarke's successor.
Southgate, though, believes English soccer's governing body is far more diverse than is perceived outside the organization. "There are over 800 people who work at the FA from diverse national backgrounds, different sexuality, members of the LGBT community. It's as diverse an organization as I have been a part of," added Southgate.
"I think internally there was a lot of upset about what had been said. I think Greg recognized among all the other challenges of what he said yesterday would have provided, the upset of what he said internally was massive."
But when asked whether the next FA chairman should be black or female, Southgate insisted the role has to go to the best candidate.
"I think we have a lot of black and female staff at the FA and they would want the right person for the role," he said. "That could be anybody from any background, anybody of any gender. I could easily grandstand and say it should be somebody from one part of the community but I don't think that would be correct."
The FA hopes to appoint a new chairman by the end of March and Southgate touted the credentials of former Chelsea and Celtic player Paul Elliott, the chairman of its inclusion advisory board.
"What I admire about someone like Paul Elliott is he has committed himself to football administration, there are a lot of hours to that,"Southgate said. "There are a lot of meetings to attend that a lot of people don't want to do. The reforms Paul has helped to put in place deserve a lot of commendation.
"It isn't for everybody. A lot of the people proposed, populist views, don't really want to put the hours in or have that responsibility. It has to be a particular type of person and I'm highlighting Paul as I have great respect for what he has done within our organization."
FIFA welcomed Clarke's FA resignation but said it was up to him whether he also leaves his role as vice-president of the world governing body.
Clarke's FIFA term runs through 2023. He was elected by the congress of European governing body UEFA, so FIFA would appear unable to remove Clarke from its ruling council without opening an ethics case.
"FIFA's zero-tolerance position on discrimination remains steadfast and clear: any form of discrimination, including racism, sexism and homophobia, has no place in football," FIFA said in a statement. "In the circumstances and given the nature of his comments, FIFA considers that Mr. Clarke did the right thing to resign as chairman of the FA yesterday."
"He is, of course, free to resign from the FIFA Council, just as he has resigned as chairman of the FA,"FIFA said. "It is for Mr. Clarke to take that decision."