Born intersex and raised as a boy, Polina has known for years that she wanted to live as a woman. But Russia’s sweeping curbs on gender-affirming healthcare have made that much more difficult.
The 33-year-old from Moscow said that since a new law – which targets transgender people – was passed in July, doctors have been wary about prescribing her female sex hormones and other gender-affirming treatment for fear they could lose their licences or face prosecution.
“The law likens any treatment, even if justified and vitally necessary, to wrongdoing,” Polina said in a message chat, asking for her surname to be withheld for privacy reasons.
Good looks and a strong style game clearly run in the Pascal family.
Last week, Pedro Pascal and his gorgeous transgender sister Lux arrived at the LACMA Art + Film Gala presented by Gucci in Los Angeles – and they made an insanely chic pair. The Last of Us actor wore a sleek black tuxedo with white piping while his sibling opted for a red lace dress and matching scarlet sandals.
Here’s what you need to know about the actor’s fashionable sister.
Pedro and Lux were both born to Verónica Pascal and José Balmaceda Riera. Lux was born in Chile in 1992, meaning she’s only 31 years old – 17 years younger than her 48-year-old actor brother. They also have two other siblings, per Today.
Lux has also gone into acting. Per her IMDB profile, she earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts at the Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile. Then in 2019, she enrolled in the MFA acting programme at the prestigious Juilliard School in New York, and graduated earlier this year.
She has already starred in various Chilean TV series, and even appeared alongside Pedro in Narcos, under a different name, according to her IMDB page.
A few years back, Lux revealed in an interview that she was getting hormone treatment – and that Pedro had been supportive the whole way through.
The Mandalorian actor has been very protective of his sister, and often celebrates her. In February 2021, he shared the Ya magazine cover with his sister on it, captioning the post, “My sister, my heart, our Lux” as translated from Spanish.
Our screens are about to get sizzling hot as two hunks have joined forces to star in one of this year’s most anticipated TV series – Fellow Travelers, released on October 27.
In case you haven’t heard already, Matt Bomer (White Collar) and Jonathan Bailey (Bridgerton) are starring in Showtime’s limited series inspired by Thomas Mallon’s 2007 novel of the same name. The cast list also features Jelani Alladin, Noah Ricketts and Allison Williams.
The narrative follows the lives of two men who become star-crossed lovers after meeting in the early 1950s, and their challenging encounters with purges, wars, protests and plagues, as described in the series’ IMDB page.
As openly gay men in Hollywood, Bomer and Bailey have long been hailed as icons in the LGBTQ+ community, and uniting them for this series seemed like a match made in heaven for many fans.
Here’s a look into their astronomical rise to fame and influence.
Bailey, 35, started his career from a young age doing theatre, performing in famous West End production of Les Misérables, per his IMDB profile. Although he’s had numerous stints in TV shows and films over the years, it was his role as Lord Anthony Bridgerton in Netflix’s Bridgerton series that catapulted him to global stardom. Bailey is also set to star in Wicked with Ariana Grande, Ethan Slater and Michelle Yeoh.
Meanwhile, Missouri-born Bomer, 46, has been in the biz for longer, having acted in films like Magic Mike, In Time and as the lead character in TV series White Collar.
Both men have been actively sought out by luxury brands to represent their collections over the years. From Ralph Lauren and Omega to Brunello Cucinelli, Bailey has shown off his polished Englishman aesthetic by nodding to quiet luxury vibes in his outfits.
Bomer has a more colourful and vibrant side to him, rocking purple suits from Versace and stripy tuxes from Tom Ford on red carpets.
What about their love lives?
Bomer has been married for over a decade to 59-year-old publicist Simon Halls since tying the knot in 2011. Per Popsugar, the couple share three sons together, conceived through surrogacy.
Bailey has been much more private about his love life. Although he’s never officially confirmed a relationship, he was spotted kissing an actor called James Ellis in 2019, states the same source.
Growing up in the cutthroat industry of showbiz wasn’t all smooth sailing for Bailey and Bomer.
Bomer, who was raised in a conservative Christian home, told Out Magazine that his parents gave him “radio silence for a long, long time, at least six months” after he came out as gay to them, but he has since mended the relationship.
In 2012, Bomer received the New Generation Arts and Activism Award for his activism in the fight against HIV/Aids at the Steve Chase Humanitarian Awards, per People.
Troye Sivan is on a roll.
This month, the Australian singer released his third studio album Something to Give Each Other, which breezed its way to No 1 on his country’s Aria music chart last week, per Billboard.
He also opened up to NPR about the songs he wrote about his romances with men and aspects of queer life.
“Of course, there’s a big element of pride in the fact that I am now so comfortably, openly gay. [He came out in 2013 in a YouTube video]. But also just musically, especially on this album, there’s so many little nostalgic references to the pop that I grew up listening to – pop stars of the early noughties – even down to the choreography and the music videos. I really am doing it for six-year-old me, who just wanted to be a pop star so badly,” he told the radio station.
In one of his latest hits, the LGBTQ+ icon is nearly unrecognisable as he gets into drag and dresses as a blonde bombshell for his “One of Your Girls” music video.
Who are Tiger Woods’ teen kids with ex-wife Elin Nordegren?
Besides music, the 28-year-old has also become a fixture on the fashion circuit. This October, Sivan made his Paris Fashion Week debut by walking on the runway for Miu Miu’s spring 2024 collection.
The South African-born star got his early start on YouTube, much like fellow celebs Justin Bieber and Shawn Mendes. After nabbing the part of a young James Logan in the film X-Men Origins: Wolverine in 2009, he started dabbling with posting on the video platform, according to Billboard.
When Buzzfeed asked him who the first LGBTQ+ entertainer or public figure that inspired him was, Sivan said Miley Cyrus played a huge role in his youth.
Netflix’s Beckham: who are Posh and Becks’ 4 kids and where are they today?
“The first one that like actually mattered to me, who has since come out as not straight, is Miley Cyrus. I remember when I was like 13 and watching Hannah Montana, I thought she was the coolest person in the world,” he told the publication.
After his 2009 X-Men gig where he starred opposite Hugh Jackman and Ryan Reynolds, he went on to appear in Spud, Three Months, Boy Erased with Nicole Kidman, Russell Crowe and Madelyn Cline, and the controversial HBO show The Idol alongside Johnny Depp’s daughter Lily-Rose Depp, Blackpink’s Jennie and The Weeknd.
Sivan has enjoyed an astronomical music career so far, to say the least. Some of his most popular songs include “I’m So Tired” with Lauv, “Youth”, “There For You” with Martin Garrix and “Dance to This” with Ariana Grande.
Ever since Sivan stepped into the limelight, he has been making strong fashion statements in whatever he wears and wherever he goes.
What does Michael Jordan think of his son’s relationship with Larsa Pippen?
From owning the “no pants” trend in the front row at Loewe’s menswear show and deconstructing the traditional suit with Valentino at Cannes, to wearing a full leather suit from Diesel to the Vanity Fair Oscars party, this year alone has been a stylish 2023 for Sivan.
Aside from working with brands like Cartier on a handful of campaigns, he has also become a beauty icon, showing fans his make-up routine and catching the attention of YSL Beauty, who appointed him as its new ambassador last year.
The “My My My!” star counts a variety of celebs within his tight-knit circle. In an episode of Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen, Sivan revealed that his first “genuine” celeb friend was none other than the pop princess herself, Ariana Grande. He’s also struck up friendships with fellow Aussie Kylie Minogue, Dua Lipa and Taylor Swift over the years.
The big Madonna biopic might’ve been scrapped earlier this year, but the Queen of Pop’s life and legacy clearly won’t be far from the public eye in the years to come.
Fans didn’t have to wait long for more thrills and spills. This week, Pulitzer Prize finalist Mary Gabriel’s Madonna: A Rebel Life – The Biography finally arrived – an already-acclaimed account of Madge’s illustrious four-decade music career, and how she’s managed to stay in the spotlight to this day.
Perhaps by coincidence (or not), the day after the bio was released, Madonna’s daughter Lourdes Leon released a new song “Spelling” as Lolahol, which the 26-year-old described as “an homage to [her] mother’s timeless piece of art ‘Frozen’”.
The biggest news of all however, is that The Queen of Pop is kicking off her anniversary The Celebration Tour in London today – a six-month greatest hits extravaganza wrapping in Mexico City in late April.
Lil Tay’s resurrection: is the controversial viral star in her K-pop era?
Gabriel’s biography explains how Madonna got the nickname “Madge”. Back in her earlier days, when she moved to London to work on her Music album in 2000, her British fans liked how she acted more like a “normal” person rather than a typical Hollywood celeb. It apparently earned her the title “Madge” to help her blend in, rather than have a glam name like Madonna.
It’s no secret that the talent born Madonna Louise Ciccone can dance. She’s been doing it for decades! But what’s lesser known about the “Like a Virgin” superstar is that she actually studied ballet in her teens. She even earned a dance scholarship at the University of Michigan, before dropping out to relocate to New York City.
The biography touches on Madonna’s friendship with pop art legend Andy Warhol – she also mingled with artist Keith Haring and dated Jean-Michel Basquiat at one point.
Christopher Ciccone, Madonna’s younger brother, was a big part of her life for years, serving as a backup dancer and helping with backstage dressing. However, things got tense when Madonna prepared to marry Guy Ritchie – and they became estranged.
Reports suggest the siblings might’ve mended their friendship since.
Madonna’s high-profile relationship with actor Sean Penn couldn’t catch a break. During their marriage, which lasted between 1985 and 1989, the two were followed everywhere by the paparazzi and were nicknamed the “Poison Penns” by tabloids.
Considering she was married to one of the biggest filmmakers of his generation (Ritchie directed modern classics like Snatch, The Gentlemen and Sherlock Holmes), it’s no wonder Madonna knows how to look for a good film – and occasionally, she even stars in them.
She’s been in films like A League of Their Own (199﻿2) and Evita (1996). In 2011, she wrote and directed W.E., a war drama that follows the “scandalous” romance between Britain’s King Edward VIII and American socialite Wallis Simpson, who’s been referred to as the Meghan Markle of her day.
The “Like a Prayer” songstress was also set to direct her own biopic starring Inventing Anna’s Julia Garner as the pop star, before the production reportedly got shelved because she demanded a “grittier” script.
Last month, Bravo announced that Kristen Kish is set to succeed Padma Lakshmi as the new host of Top Chef – a reality series that offers a glimpse into the competitive, high-pressure environment of the restaurant business.
The news came a month after Lakshmi, who had played her part for 17 years and 19 seasons, announced her departure, saying that “it’s time to move on”, as reported by People.
Either way, she’s got a world of support, including Lakshmi herself who sent her well wishes for the upcoming season 21, which will debut in 2024.
Here’s everything we know about the culinary talent.
Kish was an adopted child from Korea and she grew up in Michigan, per Women’s Health. “My parents helped me explore my Korean heritage,” she wrote in an article for the publication.
As a kid, Kish was always drawn to the culinary world, per Today. She told the publication that, while most of the chefs she’d see on TV tended to be white men in the 1990s, it didn’t stop her from wanting to pursue the craft. By age seven, she was merging cultures, making burgers with home-made kimchi, states the source.
Who is controversial music manager Scooter Braun – and who’s dropping him?
Kish is already an icon in her own right, reaching several milestones in her career. In 2013, she became the first woman of colour to win Top Chef, per NBC News.
Before this incredible moment though, the budding chef attended Le Cordon Bleu in Chicago at her mother’s recommendation, per Warner Bros. Discovery. Kish then moved to Boston and worked in many well-known restaurants including the Michelin-star chef Guy Martin’s Sensing and Barbara Lynch’s Stir as chef de cuisine, states the source.
After winning the title with the Bravo show, Kish became chef de cuisine of Menton, then left in 2014 to pursue her dreams of travelling the world and writing a cookbook, per Warner Bros. Discovery.
But that’s not all. The multitalented chef became a co-host to 36 Hours, a travel channel show associated with The New York Times. In 2018, she partnered with Line Hotels to launch her first restaurant Arlo Grey in Austin, Texas, which combines French and Italian cuisine with a nostalgic twist.
Talk about the ultimate foodie power couple!
Kish is married to Bianca Dusic, who was working as the VP of food and beverage at The Standard Hotels when they first got engaged, per Distractify. The two tied the knot in an intimate backyard celebration with their family attending virtually in 2021, as seen in a post on Facebook. According to Dusic’s LinkedIn, she now works as a mindset and transformation coach at bWithin.
As an openly queer, adopted Asian female chef, Kish is blazing a trail for aspiring cooks with similar backgrounds in the industry. She’s received plenty of support since she came out after winning the competition back in 2013, according to a blog called Queer Forty.
Casey McQuiston’s cult LGBTQ+ novel Red, White & Royal Blue has just been adapted into a film four years after its bestseller success. The film premiered on Amazon Prime on August 12 and earned an R rating thanks to some of its raunchy scenes.
According to SheReads, McQuiston conceived of the story in 2016 while watching a new season of HBO comedy series Veep and alternating between reading a biography of Hillary Clinton and a novel that loosely follows Prince William and Kate Middleton’s story.
In 2019, McQuiston subsequently published their romantic tale between the American president’s son and the younger brother to the future king of Britain – Alex Claremont-Diaz and Prince Henry, played by The Kissing Booth actor Taylor Zakhar Perez and Nicholas Galitzine in the film adaptation.
The fictional pair is publicly embroiled in a rivalry that soon evolves into a forbidden love, with Alex’s free spirit clashing with Henry’s restraint. Their bond challenges tradition and the push/pull romance between the two has fans hooked, turning McQuiston into the sole winner of both best debut and best romance at the 2019 Goodreads Awards.
So what do we know about the novel that inspired this summer’s hottest queer romance film?
Who is Red, White & Blue’s author, Casey McQuiston?
McQuiston’s 2019 debut novel Red, White & Royal blue earned the author a huge fan base, but they originally studied journalism and worked in magazine publishing before finding success as a queer romance writer.
Born on January 21, 1991, McQuiston, who is openly queer and uses they/them pronouns, grew up in Southern Louisiana. They attended a deeply conservative Christian school and previously acknowledged in interviews that it impacted the stories they choose to write.
“Anybody who’s been through queer religious trauma has ways of coping with that in adulthood,” they said in an interview with Time magazine.
The 32-year-old has since doubled down with two more queer romances. One Last Stop is a queer love story published in 2021 with a paranormal twist, while I Kissed Shara Wheeler is a 2022 young adult romance that draws on McQuiston’s conservative upbringing.
Red, White & Royal Blue first gained traction when it caught the attention of BookTok, the corner of avid book readers and reviewers on TikTok.
Jacob Demlow, better known by his TikTok handle @a.veryqueerbookclub, frequently discusses and promotes Red, White & Royal Blue on his account. He told The New York Times that his initial reaction to reading the book was to fling it across the room in delight.
“It was all these amazing tropes that romance lovers have loved forever, but there was a couple in it who looked like a couple I would be in,” Demlow said.
And with the entire literature community on TikTok raving about the book, news of a film adaptation triggered an entirely new craze.
Summer of girl power! Is Peggy Gou the coolest DJ in the world right now?
How does the film adaptation differ from the book?
Amazon Prime’s Red, White & Royal Blue departs somewhat from the book, as is typical of film adaptations. Director Matthew López made some small and some significant changes, but the central love narrative involving Alex and Prince Henry is still intact.
For example, Alex’s mum Ellen (played by Uma Thurman) and dad Oscar are divorced in the book, but they are still married in the film. Another adjustment is the gender of the royal family’s head, as we see the novel’s Queen Mary replaced by King James III in the film, played by Stephen Fry.
While there are other minor variations throughout the adaptation, June Claremont-Diaz, the first daughter of the American president and Alex’s older sister, may be the most conspicuous absence. June plays a significant role in the story as Alex’s confidante. She even pretends to be the one dating Henry when the media begins to question the relationship between the two boys.
For the past decade, Rikkie Kolle has been on a journey that has seen her grow from a child in a Dutch harbour city into the Netherlands’ latest beauty queen.
The 22-year-old’s crowning glory came two weeks ago when she was named Miss Netherlands at a gala function, becoming the first transgender woman to win the prize.
“This is truly my year,” said the statuesque brunette, crossing her long fingers in front of a sash with her new title.
“To me it’s an acknowledgement. To win the title as the first transgender woman after 94 years was a beautiful moment,” Kolle told AFP.
The organisers of Miss Netherlands said Kolle “has a strong story with a clear mission”.
She will now represent the Netherlands at the Miss Universe pageant in El Salvador in November.
She will be the second-ever transgender woman to participate in the contest after Angela Ponce, who appeared for Spain in 2018.
Kolle, who lives in the southern city of Breda, faced a barrage of negative messages and even death threats on social media after winning.
“The reactions in general were positive, but you also get negative reactions. I believe those will blow over,” she said, when asked about the threats.
“I want to focus on the nice things, and there are plenty,” she said.
Kolle hopes to be a role model for others, particularly young people from the trans community.
“I think it’s very important to be there, that they have someone to inspire them or to refer to because it was more difficult for me when I was a child,” she said.
Growing up in the northern harbour city of Den Helder as a boy wasn’t easy, said Kolle.
Is Kobe Bryant’s daughter Natalia Beyoncé’s most stylish intern?
But with the support of her parents, she started with puberty-blocking treatment at the age of 12.
When she turned 16, hormone replacement treatment followed.
Kolle said her transition came full circle in January this year when she underwent surgery that “gave me the complete feeling that I was now a woman and it freed me”.
“I was born little Rik. But little Rik really wanted to be Rikkie,” she captioned a photo posted in late January, showing her lying in a hospital bed.
It has been a long and difficult journey.
“This road will never end. You will always remain a transgender woman, but it’s getting more normal for me,” she said.
“We should stop putting ourselves in boxes because I just don’t think it’s from this era any more. It’s just unnecessary,” she said.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
Malaysia’s government halted a music festival in the capital Kuala Lumpur on Saturday, a day after the frontman of British pop rock band The 1975 kissed a male bandmate onstage and criticised the country’s anti- LGBTQ laws.
“There will be no compromise against any party that challenges, disparages and violates Malaysian laws,” Communications Minister Fahmi Fadzil said in a Twitter post after meeting the organisers of the Good Vibes Festival, a three-day event set to run until Sunday.
The 1975 has also been banned from performing in Malaysia, said a government committee that oversees filming and performances by foreigners.
A courtroom win and new anti-discrimination law could be seen as signs Japan is warming to the protection of LGBTQ rights. But activists warn of a dark side.
They say recent months have seen a rising tide of hateful online rhetoric, particularly targeting transgender women.
Disinformation “linking transgender women to sexual violence in public spaces” is being “disseminated extremely widely”, the Japan Alliance for LGBT Legislation warned earlier this year.
Based on the bestselling book Red, White & Royal Blue by Casey McQuiston, the upcoming Amazon Studios film of the same name stars Taylor Zakhar Perez and Nicholas Galitzine as a couple.
The story revolves around two young men, Alex Claremont-Diaz, son of the US president, and Prince Henry of England. The two boys share a history of rivalry but after causing an international scandal, are forced to play nice for the sake of their families, in a classic enemies-to-lovers tale.
Galitzine is best known for his role as Luke in Netflix’s 2022 hit film Purple Hearts and as Prince Robert in the 2021 musical remake of Cinderella, so it won’t be the first time the actor will take on the role of a royal.
Ivanka Trump or Kate Middleton – who wore the Lotus Lady dress better?
The 28-year-old English actor was born and raised in London to Geoffrey and Lora Galitzine. His father, an entrepreneur, descends from The House of Galitzine, one of Russia’s noble families, per Okay Bliss.
The actor attended a private school in London called Dulwich College. While he frequently took part in rugby and football matches at school, he also nurtured his interest in acting by becoming a member of a youth theatre company called Pleasance Islington.
Galitzine landed his first role aged 20 in the 2014 film The Beat Beneath My Feet. Since then, he has been busy with multiple projects but it was his role of Prince Robert in Cinderella alongside Camila Cabello that established Galitzine as a Hollywood heartthrob.
Not only did Galitzine woo audiences with his effortless charm, but he also sang multiple songs for the musical’s soundtrack.
Fans are excited to see how Galitzine will portray Prince Henry in Red, White, & Royal Blue but there doesn’t seem to be much to worry about as the actor has a number of credentials.
In fact, Amazon Prime Video has already announced the actor’s casting in another upcoming film, The Idea of You, alongside actress Anne Hathaway. He’s also starring in queer comedy Bottoms, out in theatres next month.
Earlier this month, it was announced that Galitzine would be expanding his already impressive resume with a Fendi endorsement.
While a number of legacy fashion houses are tapping into the Asian entertainment industries for ambassadors, Fendi went with Galitzine as its first ever global menswear ambassador, per Flaunt.
“To create history with such an iconic brand is something I’ll remember for the rest of my career. Thank you to @fendi for welcoming me into such an elegant family,” said Galitzine in an Instagram post.
The actor has previously lent his voice to film soundtracks and shared several clips of him singing and playing instruments on his Instagram account – then in 2022, he released his very first single “Comfort”.
With his natural charm, several lead roles under his belt, lucrative endorsements and the possibility of a musical career, Galitzine is well on his way to becoming a true Hollywood star.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
Adapted from Casey McQuiston’s bestselling novel, the upcoming queer romcom Red, White & Royal Blue is already firing up social media.
The centres on the push/pull romance between Alex Claremont-Diaz – the stubborn and impulsive son of the American president – and Prince Henry of England. Dropping on Amazon Prime on August 11, the movie has already been rated-R by the Motion Picture Association of America so fans can expect to see some electric chemistry on-screen.
While the cast includes seasoned actors such as Uma Thurman and Stephen Fry, all attention will be on the men of the hour – Taylor Zakhar Perez and Nicholas Galitzine. Perez in particular has turned heads after arriving shirtless at the 2024 Prada menswear fashion show in Milan.
The Chicago native is best known for his role as Marco in the The Kissing Booth films.
It might surprise you to learn that Perez has enjoyed much longer screen history. In fact, eagle-eyed fans have already noticed that the 31-year-old actor made a brief appearance on as Keith on Nickelodeon’s iCarly.
Perez, who is of Middle Eastern, Mediterranean and Mexican descent, is not afraid to rock bold looks. His Instagram is full of snapshots of his stylish outfits, whether it’s on the red carpet or a casual stroll through the streets of Paris.
Most recently, Perez made a daring move of arriving at the Prada fashion show in Milan wearing nothing but a pair of green pants. A video of him circulated on Twitter, which shows the actor exiting his car half-naked and then proceeding to cover himself up with a black jacket.
One look at Perez’s social media will tell you that he likes to stay active. The actor has a chiselled figure and according to his Instagram posts, he seems to maintain it with the help of sporty hobbies such as cycling, hiking, surfing and even gardening.
But Perez also has an artistic side to him. The Kissing Booth actor had to master the guitar and singing for his role as Marco in the film and it seems he has continued to brush up on his musical skills even after the film.
With Perez playing the bisexual Alex Claremont-Diaz in Red, White & Royal Blue, fans have been busy speculating about the actor’s sexuality, especially after seeing his off-screen chemistry with co-star Nicholas Galitzine.
In an interview with Canadian lifestyle magazine Sharp, Perez expressed that he wanted to use his platform to fight for the rights of people of colour, the transgender and the LGBTQ community.
In the past, Perez has also used his platform to speak out on multiple social issues such as Black Lives Matter, women’s rights, as well as Asian hate crimes.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
The US Supreme Court on Friday made two high-profile controversial decisions amid its most important rulings of the year.
In a blow to LGBT rights, the justices ruled that the constitutional right to free speech allows certain businesses to refuse to provide services for same-sex weddings, ruling in favour of a web designer who cited her Christian beliefs in challenging a Colorado anti-discrimination law.
On the same day, the court handed US President Joe Biden a painful defeat, blocking his plan to cancel US$430 billion in student loan debt – a move that had been intended to benefit up to 43 million Americans and fulfil a campaign promise.
A tweet by Chinese consul general in Osaka Xue Jian earlier this week in which he described transgender people as being “deformed” has stirred controversy, with some commenting the post is discriminatory against sexual minorities.
The consul general also said “the absolute minority is effectively forcing us – the absolute majority” and claimed it goes against the basics of majority-rules democracy that the West has long advocated.
For years before my recent trip to Chengdu, friends from the mainland had told me that the Sichuan capital was also known colloquially as China’s “ gay capital”.
During my five days in the city, I saw plenty of hand-holding gay couples out in public, more than I would in Hong Kong. They could have easily gone unnoticed, given the lack of stares in a locality that was refreshingly unbothered.
Unlike Britain’s own unofficial “gay capital” of Brighton, Chengdu does not boast extravagant displays of rainbow-themed decorations or an overblown above-ground gay scene. The locals are quite aware that their gay bars and clubs attract people from across the country, and those of different sexual preferences live their lives quite harmoniously without those matters being dramatised.
Michael Wong’s eldest daughter Kayla has been enjoying the Cali life lately.
Swapping out the neon lights and towering skyscrapers of her hometown of Hong Kong, her new beachside marital crib in Venice, Los Angeles, is the envy of many, and her latest posts showcase just how gorgeous it is inside too.
But it didn’t come cheap. According to 8 Days, the minimalist mansion cost a whopping US$6.1 million.
Kayla, 30, reportedly moved to the US after tying the knot with her photographer wife Elaine Chen-Fernandez last year.
Despite being born into fame and fortune, and marrying a property heiress, Kayla isn’t your typical celebrity kid. Beyond her family background, she has cultivated a reputation as one of Hong Kong’s leading LGBTQ+ activists and purpose-driven entrepreneurs.
Here’s what we know about the young creative.
First thing’s first – Kayla Wong is bona fide celebrity royalty after all.
The daughter of supermodel Janet Ma and acclaimed actor Michael Wong, Kayla was born in Hong Kong and has two siblings, Irisa Shannon and Kadin Miles.
Her dad Michael, aka Wong Man-tak, is best known for starring in hits like Legacy of Rage, Beast Cops, Ip Man: Kung Fu Master and A Guilty Conscience, while her mum Ma is a famous model from the 80s.
Wong definitely has creativity in her genes. The self-taught photographer launched Casa of Love to put the spotlight on LGBTQ+ relationships. She featured intimate portraits of female couples in bed for the project, and also used it as a storytelling platform to highlight local artists and designers. It’s unclear whether she still runs it though, as the page has since been deleted.
In a 2020 interview with Hong Kong media, Wong said she prefers taking photos of people over everything else and likes to play with light and shadow.
Wong cut her teeth in fashion, interning with prestigious names like Christian Dior and Lane Crawford before launching her own brand, Basics for Basics. Founded in 2015, the slow fashion label focuses on elevated casual wear with a sustainable approach.
She told Hong Kong media that after graduating from fashion school, she realised she had no interest in acting and wasn’t tall enough to be a model, so she started her clothing venture instead.
“[Basics for Basics is] aligned with my own values, which are to promote equal and fair treatment to all,” she said. According to the brand’s official Instagram page, it’s “currently taking a break”, while Wong’s bio states that the entrepreneur is “currently brewing something new”, so it seems like she’s got another project in the pipeline. Stay tuned!
Last September, Wong married her then-girlfriend Chen-Fernandez at an outdoor camp at Joshua Tree, a park in California, according to 8 Days. Wong opted for a summery white gown with trainers, while Chen-Fernandez rocked a cream suit with a fedora hat.
Fernandez-Chen is the granddaughter of property giant Hang Lung Group’s co-founder Thomas Chen and the founder of The Wild Lot, an experimental space in Sheung Wan, Hong Kong.
According to Dirt, the billionaire heiress and her new wife seriously splashed out on their 7,800 sq ft home in LA in May. The roomy abode is complete with a spacious backyard, built-in barbecue with a pizza oven, walk-in wardrobe, saltwater pool, spa and more. According to 8 Days, the newlyweds moved to the US via private jet with their dogs at the end of the pandemic.
As the child of a celebrity couple in Hong Kong, Wong has used her voice for good, promoting everything LGBTQ+ from representation to ethical fashion.
During Pride Month last year, Wong helped support The Wild Lot’s Ride or Pride event which was described as a “one-of-a-kind, rainbow unicorn-biker-themed block party”. Her brand Basics for Basics also previously released a collection with 10 per cent of all sales going to a local LGBTQ+ organisation, per The Mil Source. Wong is also very open about her sexuality these days and is willing to speak up for LGBTQ+ causes in interviews.
Kayla is close to both her mum and dad. She regularly shares photos with both of them and credits them for her success.
While her parents remain based in Hong Kong, Kayla is starting her new life in California – and we can’t wait to see what she launches next.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
Shop with pride – and purpose – this month!
As June is dedicated to LGBTQ+ representation and celebration, many brands launch limited capsule collections exclusively themed around all things Pride.
From Jean Paul Gaultier and Coach to Betsey Johnson, shop at these labels for some wonderful pieces, while knowing that they are giving back to globally renowned LGBTQ+ charities and communities.
Here are five of our favourite collections so far.
The French design house has waved the flag for radical acceptance since the very start of its launch in 1976. This year it has merged fashion and beauty to give a very simple and impactful message with the launch of the limited-edition Pride perfume bottles, available in the iconic Classique and Le Male bottles.
The new Pride 2023 collection features a chrome-plated body inspired by the house’s iconic archives emblazoned with the slogan “Get Used to It!” The world-famous bottles mimic the shape of a naked torso and the scents notes of woody citrus paired with orange and neroli for a zesty yet decadent scent.
Jean Paul Gaultier continues to support associations making a difference. It has partnered with LGBTQ+ organisations such as The Center in New York City, Le Refuge in France and Cogam in Spain.
Coach released a capsule collection that focuses on the theme of “Courage to Be Real”. The brand took inspiration from New York’s vibrant LGBTQ+ enclaves in Fire Island Pines and Cherry Grove in its photos and films.
The campaign features influencers including Fran Tirado and Ashley Lukashevsky who model the capsule collection’s line-up of camp shirts, knit tank tops, shorts, footwear and accessories. One of the stand-out series is the Cashin Carry 22 bags inspired by the 1969 Cashin Carry totes created by Coach’s first lead designer, Bonnie Cashin.
The brand has long partnered with the Hetrick-Martin Institute to create safe spaces for LGBTQ+ youth.
Loved by celebrities and renowned for her statement designs and accessories, Betsey Johnson’s Pride collection is full of bejewelled shoes and unique and quirky handbags – including a disco ball-shaped bag, diamante phone-shaped bag and even a bag in the shape of a cocktail!
The brand has partnered with the Happy Hippie Foundation, a non-profit organisation founded by Miley Cyrus. Throughout June, Betsey Johnson will donate US$1 for every purchase from the Pride collection to the charity.
The foundation’s mission is to provide homeless youth, LGBTQ+ youth and other vulnerable people support services, education and employment opportunities.
Boss celebrates Pride Month with a gender-neutral Keith Haring collection. The limited-edition capsule collection includes shirts, socks, shorts and hoodies with each piece including touches of the rainbow Pride flag along the trim.
10 most popular luxury brands in the world, ranked – but who’s No 1?
Keith Haring was an American artist whose pop art emerged from the New York City graffiti subculture of the 1980s. His art commented on societal themes such as Aids.
This Pride, Boss will be making a contribution to the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA).
Calvin Klein’s Pride capsule collection features the brand’s signature minimalism with a colourfully inclusive spin for the month.
The brand is celebrating the LGBTQ+ community with unisex pieces with the theme “Let it Out”. It features a palette of red, orange, tonal yellows and blues in both matt and colour-blocked silhouettes. The collection features underwear, loungewear, separates and several styles of sunglasses.
Calvin Klein’s Pride collection is also accompanied by the brand’s latest non-profit partnerships, which have seen over US$220,000 donated to organisations including the Transgender Law Center and PFLAG National so far this year, per Content Works Agency.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
The Philippines is known as a beauty pageant powerhouse, with many treating the competitions like a national sport.
As the Philippines is home to a majority Roman Catholic population and known as relatively conservative regarding LGBTQ+ issues, this news is considered a big deal. Especially when the rising model is proudly speaking up and ready to take the world by storm.
Let’s meet the beauty queen who hopes to show her country that she’s a transformational leader using her new platform for good.
Dee said she decided to put an end to the speculation around her sexuality by disclosing her sexual orientation. She told Mega, “I’m attracted to all forms of beauty, all shapes and sizes.” The pageant queen said she has always identified as bisexual but decided not to speak about it during the national beauty contest because “it wasn’t the right time”.
She said she wanted to speak about her sexual orientation in her own time and coming out during the competition would “cloud everyone’s judgment”. She added that, after she was crowned, old images of her were being circulated and the model knew there was a malicious intention to “make me feel like I was not worthy of the crown”.
She said by taking matters into her own hands, she was controlling the narrative around her own life and wouldn’t allow people to dictate to her. Since then, Dee has proudly posted on several social media outlets that she’s bisexual.
It was Dee’s response that appeared to resonate well with the crowd and judges. She said that “the true heart and soul of the Philippines [is] with the way we are hospitable, with the warm smiles … And we are the reason why the world keeps coming back for more.” She said she would always be proud to “call myself Pinoy”.
The competition wasn’t her first rodeo though. In 2019, she was crowned Miss World Philippines and represented her country in the global competition in London, England. But she told Mega that the Covid-19 pandemic didn’t allow her to maximise her reign. Now, as Miss Universe Philippines, she’s got the platform she always wanted.
Although the model declared that the Philippines would always be considered home, according to Harper’s Bazaar Arabia, she had an international upbringing.
She was born in Makati, Metro Manila. TheSmartLocal reports her family left the Philippines for the US when she was three. There, her stepfather had a ranch in Utah and that was where the model learned how to ride horses and herd animals, states the source.
According to Mega, her family returned to the Philippines when she was around 10. It was during this time that she focused on creative arts like photography, editing and media creation.
Where is Anna Nicole Smith’s lookalike daughter Dannielynn Birkhead now?
Dee has been outspoken about her active lifestyle and has a particular love of the water. She is a free diver and posted an image of herself under water at Flower Island Resort, Palawan last year. Free diving relies on natural breath holding until resurfacing instead of using apparatus like scuba gear.
Once look at her Instagram page and you’ll see that Dee is an accomplished model. Per Harper’s Bazaar Arabia, she is signed to Click Model Management in New York and has worked with a number of well-known brands such as Longchamp.
According to TheSmartLocal , Dee delved into showbiz in 2019 and hosted lifestyle show Glow Up. She has starred in other TV projects including I Left My Heart in Sorsogon and Mga Lihim Ni Urduja.
Her mum is Melanie Marquez, an actress and model who won Miss International Philippines in 1979. According to TheSmartLocal, her grandfather’s brother was Dee Ching Chuan, the founder of China Bank.
Many of her relatives are still part of the company’s board, states the source. Yu Hung-chun, who was the principal adviser to the president of China in the 1950s, is Dee’s paternal great-grandfather.
Dee graduated with a degree in psychology from De La Salle University in 2017. According to TheSmartLocal, she has two siblings on the autism spectrum, Mazen and Adam. At 16, she became an advocate for autism awareness and has since worked with organisations to promote awareness of the condition. In 2020, the model was named the Goodwill Ambassador of the Autism Society Philippines.
Want more stories like this? Follow Style on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
Malaysian gay rights activists have condemned “deeply unsettling” government raids on Swatch outlets to seize pride-themed watches, as the nation’s LGBTQ community meet growing intolerance by Muslim conservatives.
The watches, from Swatch’s Pride Collection, timed for release before next month’s global Pride Month, feature rainbow colours along with messages of peace and love.
Raids by Home Ministry agents took place on May 13 to 14 across 11 Swatch outlets in Malaysia, mostly in major shopping centres, according to a seizure notice seen by This Week in Asia.
An event for the LGBTQ community due to have been held on May 27 at Singapore’s Capitol Theatre was cancelled owing to a misunderstanding caused by a lapse in communication, the theatre’s operator said. It was not because of concerns over its LGBTQ nature as alleged by some, it added.
The party event, called Slay Harajuku, was cancelled because it was an electronic dance music (EDM) event, the Capitol Theatre’s operator IMC Group Asia told TODAY in response to queries.
The firm had decided not to hold EDM events at the theatre in future after a New Year’s Eve EDM party there left the premises “in an extremely bad condition”.
However, this change of policy was “not communicated effectively to our venues management team”, an IMC Group Asia spokesperson said.
The event’s organiser Slay LA, which is based in Los Angeles in the United States, said in an Instagram post that the firm had booked and paid for the venue in March and was not proceeding with Slay Harajuku, including at any other venue, “with a heavy heart”.
The company, which specialises in LGBTQ events, alleged that Perennial Holdings, the owner of Capitol Theatre, had expressed concerns about the event to IMC Group Asia, referring to its discomfort “with Slay being a ‘gay event’”.
Responding to TODAY’s queries, Perennial Holdings did not directly answer the allegation about the gay nature of the event, but pointed to IMC Group Asia’s statement that the reason for the cancellation was because it was an EDM event.
“As the landlord of Capitol Singapore, we uphold a key responsibility to our stakeholders and community to manage the heritage property well,” it said.
This includes “taking into consideration the views of our immediate and surrounding stakeholders, including the religious community in close vicinity such as the church and mosque”.
Slay LA said that it had put out marketing campaigns for interested participants to save the date and expected about 600 to 700 partygoers to attend the Japanese-themed event.
With the event now cancelled, it expects to lose “tens of thousands of dollars” in sponsorship deals and ticketing revenue.
The firm had previously organised two LGBTQ events in Singapore, with its latest event, Aqueerium, attracting throngs of partygoers to Rumours Beach Club where the event was held.
In response to TODAY’s queries, Slay LA said that the firm “had planned for two live DJ performances, dance performances [as well as] a drag performance” for the now-cancelled party.
Slay LA said that Perennial Holdings was also concerned about “noise complaints” from nearby tenants as well as potential “rowdiness”, but this was not stated before the venue hire agreement.
Speaking to TODAY, IMC Group Asia referred to the company’s earlier experience with hosting an EDM event at Capitol Theatre, as it clarified the rationale behind the event’s cancellation.
IMC Group Asia took over the management of the Capitol Theatre from Perennial Holdings in January 2021.
The company said that it has since abided by the guideline to avoid hosting EDM events at Capitol Theatre.