Austria has set aside millions of euros to compensate thousands of gay people who until two decades ago faced prosecution, its justice minister has said.
The country decriminalised homosexuality in 1971 but certain discriminatory provisions remained in force until the early 2000s.
A ban on male homosexual prostitution remained in place until 1989 although heterosexual prostitution was legal. The age of consent for sexual contact between men was 18 – instead of 14 for heterosexuals – until 2002.
On Tuesday the justice minister, Alma Zadić, said an estimated 11,000 people were eligible for compensation, with a total of €33m (£29m) allotted for payout.
Gay people who were investigated under the now-repealed laws would get €500, while convictions would be quashed, she said.
Those who were convicted would get €3,000 and more if they were jailed or suffered in terms of health, economically or in their professional lives.
The law, allowing for compensation effective from February next year, was expected to pass parliament this year, a ministry speaker told AFP.
People will have to come forward to claim the compensation.
Zadić – who has previously apologised over the prosecutions gay men and women faced – also urged people to stand up against hatred and violence against the LGBTQ+ community, which she said was on the rise.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Austria is not the first country to take this step. In 2017, Germany’s parliament voted to quash the convictions of 50,000 gay men sentenced for homosexuality under a Nazi-era law that remained in force after the war, and offer compensation.
Austria was annexed by Nazi Germany in 1938, leading to the persecution not only of Jews but also gay people and others targeted by the Nazis.
Same-sex marriage has been legal in Austria since 2019, and surveys show that Austrian public opinion is firmly on the side of equal treatment for same-sex couples.
A programme of proposed legislation designed to shore up Rishi Sunak’s re-election prospects will be laid out on Tuesday in the king’s speech.
About 20 bills are expected to be included in what is the final legislative programme before the next general election. The Conservatives are expected to try to open up key dividing lines with Labour on issues including net zero.
Here is what to expect – and what is likely to be left out.
A new annual system for awarding oil and gas licences will be announced, with the government saying it will protect jobs and bolster energy security.
But experts, including climate scientists and poverty campaigners, have warned against plans to keep drilling. New oil and gas fields in the North Sea would only produce enough gas to satisfy Britain’s needs for a few weeks a year and have minimal impact on energy security, analysis found this year.
The energy secretary, Claire Coutinho, has admitted that household energy bills may not come down as a result of the plans. Labour would block new domestic exploration licences if it wins power.
Other announcements are expected to prioritise motorists over the pursuit of reducing carbon emissions, including moves to make it more difficult for councils in England to introduce 20mph zones or clean-air schemes such as Greater London’s ultra-low emission zone (Ulez).
Sunak has already watered down climate targets, pushing back the deadline for the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and the phaseout of gas boilers, prompting furious condemnation from the automobile and energy industries.
Another potentially controversial measure is a plan to restrict the use of tents by homeless people on the streets of Britain. Home Office plans that emerged over the weekend show charities could be fined for handing out tents.
Charities condemned the move and said that blaming people forced to sleep rough would push them further away from help and into poverty.
Other previously announced measures include giving judges the power to order an offender to attend a sentencing hearing in England and Wales, including by force.
There would also be an expansion of the circumstances in which judges have to hand down a whole-life order for murder, and mandatory jail terms for certain other offences including shoplifting.
Police would have greater powers to confiscate a legally owned knife if they have reasonable grounds for suspecting it may be used for a crime, while there will be a new offence for possessing a banned blade with intent to harm.
A measure known as “Martyn’s law” – named after Martyn Hett, 29, one of 22 killed in the 2017 Manchester Arena terror attack – will be aimed at forcing all venues to draw up plans to prevent terrorist attacks and ensure public safety.
Proposals, first reported in the Guardian and which Rishi Sunak formally announced in his leader’s speech at the Conservative party’s annual conference, would introduce a gradual ‘generational’ ban on smoking.
Under the plan, anyone born on or after 1 January 2009 – in effect anyone who is 14 or younger now – would not legally be able to buy cigarettes in England ever during their lives as the smoking age is raised by one year every year, subject to MPs’ approval.
Plans have already been revealed for a new football governance bill including a regulator and a licensing system under which clubs would operate.
The regulator’s powers would include control of licensing, with clubs having to prove their solvency and “sound financial business models” before being allowed to compete.
The government is expected to go ahead with plans to abolish a key piece of press regulation law, which will result in the rolling back of a law that left newspapers liable for the legal costs of both sides in libel cases, regardless of the result.
Other media policies known to be under consideration have included increased regulation of streaming services, giving the regulator Ofcom the authority to consider complaints about shows on Netflix and Disney+.
Trophy hunting imports and live farm animal exports are expected to be banned after Sunak faced intense criticism from influential Conservatives.
The government ditched the kept animals bill earlier this year, breaking a promise made in the 2019 manifesto.
Despite a promise to end what Michael Gove described as England’s “feudal” leasehold system, a long-awaited reform bill will not end leasehold on most properties.
Sources say the bill will include a ban on developers selling new houses under leasehold. It will also cap ground rents for new and existing properties and set the default length of leases at 990 years, rather than 99.
Government sources have also told the Guardian it will not extend that ban to flats, which make up about 70% of all leasehold properties.
Plans to ban gay and transgender conversion practices are expected to be left out. Senior Tories have been worried about splitting the party, with some concerned a ban on trans conversion practices could unintentionally criminalise parents or teachers giving advice to children struggling with their gender identities.
Plans to privatise Channel 4, which would have been a key component of a media reform bill, have also been dropped.
Plans to scrap pollution rules for housebuilders in England have been abandoned, amid suggestions the sewage scandal hurt the government in byelection losses.
Previously the government had planned to put the bill, aimed at boosting housebuilding by taking away costs from developers, into the speech.
Weeks into his senior year of high school in Texas, Max Hightower earned a key male role for his campus’s production of Oklahoma! the musical. But the trans teen’s principal has since stripped the teen of the part, citing a new policy requiring students to only portray characters who align with the gender identity assigned to them when they were born.
Hightower and his family are now appealing the administrator’s decision to the school board while the play is put on hold pending a review.
The 17-year-old child’s ordeal offers up one of the latest disputes illustrating the hostile climate with which members of LGBTQ+ communities must grapple in politically conservative areas of the US, particularly in the US south.
As his family separately recounted to the Texas television news station KXAS, for four years, Hightower had excelled in the choir and theater programs offered up at Sherman high school, about 75 miles north of Dallas.
Hightower’s gender identity had never been an impediment. And the trans boy believed it would stay that way as recently as last month, when he landed the role of male character Ali Hakim for the production of Oklahoma! that Sherman was supposed to stage for three days beginning on 8 December.
Hakim is a love interest of one of the play’s female leads.
However, about two weeks later, Hightower and his parents received news that was devastating to them. Sherman’s principal said to the family that Hightower would actually lose out on the Ali Hakim role because of a new policy.
“Only males can play males, and only females can play females,” Max’s father, Phillip Hightower, recalled being told by the principal, according to KXAS.
Other students – cisgender and transgender alike – also learned that their roles would either be changing or eliminated because of the same policy, Max Hightower told the Post. Hightower described how many of those students were driven to tears, having spent weeks rehearsing songs, memorizing lines and erecting the set.
“It’s not fair,” he said.
The parents of Hightower and some of the other affected students resolved to turn to the local school board to pursue a reversal of the Sherman school’s decision.
“I’m not an activist – I’m not highly political. I have both liberal and conservative beliefs,” Phillip Hightower said. “I’m just a dad that wants to fight for his kid.
In a statement provided to various media outlets, officials of the school district governing Sherman high school said Oklahoma! would be under review until at least the middle of January because they had been alerted to the production’s “mature adult themes, profane language and sexual content”.
The statement claimed “there is no policy on how students are assigned to roles”.
Phillip Hightower said the media statement was not consistent with the “kind of odd” policy outline that Sherman high’s principal communicated to his family. He added that, despite the school district’s stance, many in the local community rallied behind Max and his schoolmates after word of their dilemma spread.
A local college theater department had even invited Max to attend a special event over the weekend. “I didn’t see any hate in any of that,” Phillip Hightower told KXAS.
The Sherman high controversy unfolds despite stage theater’s long history of actors playing roles that don’t align with the gender they were assigned at birth. For instance, in William Shakespeare’s plays, boys and young men often portrayed characters who were women.
In September, a Texas law banning drag performances in front of youth took effect. Laws prohibiting minors from receiving gender-affirming care and mandating that college athletes compete on teams aligning with their birth-assigned gender also went into effect.
State-level lawmakers around the US weighed hundreds of anti-LGBTQ+ during legislative sessions this year, with nearly half of them in the south. Dozens passed, though in some cases their implementation has been at least delayed by court challenges.
This article was amended on 10 November 2023 to clarify that the role Max Hightower initially got was a key male role, but not the leading role.
promising teenage boxer in a claustrophobic small town discovers his sexuality when he falls in love with the only openly gay kid in high school. It sounds like the biggest film cliche ever, but New Zealand film-maker Welby Ings does something subtle and tender with this in his sensitive feature debut. It’s a delicate film with a pair of lovely, natural-feeling performances from its two leads.
Jordan Oosterhof is Jim, a boxer growing up in a seaside town in New Zealand where homophobia is alive and kicking: “faggot” is a routine term of abuse. Jim is gearing up for his first ever professional fight, trained by his English dad, alcoholic ex-boxer Stan (a nicely low-key performance by Tim Roth, all drained exhaustion and disappointment). Jim hangs about with the sports bros, but he’s also a budding photographer. Oosterhof’s effortlessly persuasive performance shows his gentleness and curiosity about the world – Jim passes for jock but has a poetic soul and an emotional life too. One day, Jim finds a hideaway den built by a classmate. This is Whetu (Conan Hayes), an outsider on two fronts: gay and Māori. Whetu is bravely and defiantly queer in the face of town bullies; there’s homophobic hate crime that’s upsetting, but to me didn’t feel gratuitous or exploitative.
Punch is a film that draws on two traditions: gay coming-of-age drama and sports movie, perhaps leaning more to the former with its dreamy wistful cinematography and nostalgic mood. What’s missing maybe is the energy and adrenaline of a boxing movie. Still, it packs an emotional punch; the delicacy of its feelings is compelling.
Punch is released on 13 November on digital platforms and DVD.
Cerise Howard was 16 years old when she saw Peter Jackson’s first film, Bad Taste, in the grand Embassy theatre in Wellington, New Zealand. It left a lasting impression.
The zero-budget film – starring Jackson himself alongside puppet aliens harvesting humans for their intergalactic fast food franchise – garnered enough of a following to catapult Jackson into the wider film industry.
For Howard, the “ridiculous splatter comedy”, as she puts it, held added appeal as it was shot at a beach near her home.
Howard’s subsequent experience as a cinema writer, curator and academic culminated in her being appointed program director of this year’s 33rd Melbourne Queer film festival. Sitting down for lunch with Guardian Australia on a windy, drizzling afternoon in St Kilda’s Galleon cafe, she says she has tried to bring to this year’s festival a more historical perspective on queer film, something she describes as her “superpower”.
The theme of this year’s festival is “rewind to fast forward”. “We [LGBTQ+ people] have always been here, so it’s vital we engage with our history,” Howard says.
At the program launch, audiences were treated to a screening of the 1918 Ernst Lubitsch German silent drag comedy I don’t want to be a man, accompanied by a live bespoke soundtrack played by Melbourne musician Evelyn Ida Morris, AKA Pikelet, on the grand 1929 pipe organ.
“It mattered a lot to have this launch in Melbourne town hall – as grand a civic space as possible,” says Howard, noting disruptions to other queer events wreaked by the far right in Victoria earlier this year. “To screen a drag-themed film matters [right now].
Howard is well known in both Melbourne’s film and broader arts scene as co-curator of the Melbourne Cinematheque, cofounder of the Czech and Slovak film festival of Australia and cofounding member of Tilde: Melbourne Trans and Gender Diverse film festival.
She has also performed with a number of punk acts since the late 1990s, and currently plays bass in “a queer punk rock’n’roll spectacular”, The Legend of Queen Kong.
As the biggest, and oldest, queer film festival in Australia, MQFF has never been afraid to push boundaries, and this year is no different. Provocative films in this year’s program include Femme, in which the central character seeks violent revenge for being beat up on the streets of London; and a trashy, camp animated feature from Berlin, Captain Faggotron, featuring a giant anus floating through the sky.
“We need to see our community in all its diversity, but we don’t need to see us all painted as saints – because we’re not,” she Howard. “We are complex, nuanced human beings capable of good and bad.
Howard points to the opening night film I love you Beksman, a film ostensibly about someone “coming out as being straight”.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
While emphasising that the festival is very much a team effort, Howard says one of her primary motivations is “doing right” by a diverse queer community; being intersectional without being tokenistic. Howard wants audiences to look beyond their own identity and outside their comfort zone.
To know who we’re becoming, it pays to know who we’ve been. The nine landmark historical queer films from every which where and when are must-sees at MQFF33, including daring ‘90s Chinese drama East Palace, West Palace; the original French-Italian Birdcage, La Cage aux Folles; and Melbourne’s very own Head On (now 25!).
Matildas-mania was an epic win, proving queers and sport needn’t be strange bedfellows. Be sure to catch Marinette, Equal the Contest and Offside and a score-settling Queers in Sport panel discussion.
Don’t miss the Victorian premiere of Goran “Of an Age” Stolevski’s third feature, Housekeeping for Beginners (or his masterclass!). See also Sunflower, In the Meantime, Shape and Single, Out as well as shorts galore.
From a glorious opening night romcom interrogating gender norms (I Love You, Beksman) to 10 films by non-binary and trans film-makers (including two from Australian prodigy Alice Maio Mackay), this is the most genderqueer MQFF yet!
Who doesn’t love short shorts? Longer ones, too. We’ve 11 in-cinema shorts packages, and 13 online (the extra two compile shorts screening before features), catering to queers and cinephiles of every persuasion.
This article was amended on 6 November 2023 to correct the title of the described film set in London to Femme, which was previously listed as Passages. Passages is another film at the festival.
Michael Leonard was famous for his homoerotic drawings and paintings, which my generation of young gay men first saw in the early 1980s at his one-man show at Fischer Fine Art in London. In 1983 Gay Men’s Press published Changing, a small square book of 50 drawings, to own which was de rigueur at the time.
Leonard’s unique gift as a draughtsman was to make the viewer see his sexy male nudes with something of that thrilling stolen glance so familiar to gay men the world over. The allure of momentary desire is hard to conjure with a pencil or brush, but he had the technical brilliance and instinctive eye to do just that. Now viewed with a nostalgic gaze by many, his pictures captured young fit guys on the cusp of the Aids epidemic, when everything changed utterly.
New South Wales police might have missed an opportunity to improve its relationship with the LGBTQ+ community as a result of a “defensive” and “adversarial” approach to an 18-month inquiry into possible gay hate-related deaths, the senior counsel assisting the commission has said.
“From the perspective of the special commission, the attitude of the NSW police force has sometimes appeared overly defensive, even adversarial,” Peter Gray SC said in his final address.
Led by the commissioner, Justice John Sackar, the state inquiry has examined the unsolved killings of LGBTQ+ people that might have been hate crimes between 1970 and 2010.
It also looked at whether police bias and indifference to attacks on gay people could have affected how the cases were investigated.
Gray suggested Sackar find that 14 of the 22 unsolved deaths investigated by a police strike force were homicides.
Of the remainder, six should be classed as suspected homicides.
All of those 20 potential homicide cases included reason to suspect anti-LGBTQ+ bias was a factor in the killings.
Many of Gray’s proposed recommendations related to investigative practices that have already been adopted and endorsed by NSW police.
That included a systematic and regular review of all unsolved homicide cases and a reappraisal of existing procedures and resources in the unsolved homicide team.
Another recommendation was for police to undertake additional mandatory training concerning the LGBTQ+ community, developed with input from representatives and advocacy organisations.
The deaths of 32 people, 24 of which were identified by police strike force Parrabell and eight by the commission, were examined in the inquiry.
Hearings revealed poor record-keeping practices by police with multiple examples of crucial evidence being lost, destroyed or misplaced over the years.
“Those gaps in the records and exhibits were very damaging from the point of view of the efforts of the special commission to re-investigate such cases,” Gray said.
He also reflected on the increasingly tense interactions between law enforcement and the inquiry.
While acknowledging police provided the inquiry with substantial assistance, Gray referenced “disappointing aspects” of their involvement.
This included delays in the production of documents, underlying systemic problems with record-keeping and a lack of reflection about negative or dismissive attitudes potentially still harboured towards LGBTQ+ people by police.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Gray said despite police publicly stating their support for the inquiry, their actions over the past 18 months were “not easy to reconcile”.
“A reasonable observer might have thought those positions and stances often gave the appearance of a defensive, if not adversarial, mindset,” he said.
The inquiry represented a chance for NSW police to cooperate with the LGBTQ+ community to ensure the future was different from the past, Gray added.
“That opportunity of course still exists and it is hoped that this special commission and report will in the end have contributed to that more positive outcome,” he said.
An “encouraging” letter to the commission from NSW police said the force looked forward to considering the final report.
“[The NSW police commissioner, Karen Webb,] acknowledges the violence and discrimination suffered by members of the LGBTQI community, and the [force’s] historical failure to respond adequately to that violence and discrimination,” the letter said.
A final report will be handed to the state’s governor by 14 December.
he character of Sgt Maj Eismayer is instantly recognisable from every basic training movie you’ve ever seen. He is the tough drill officer who humiliates and bullies new recruits, bellowing at them to hit the floor and give him 25 press-ups. But it turns out that this Austrian drama directed by David Wagner (himself an army veteran) is inspired by true events. The real-life Eismayer was a gay man who lived a double life for many years, and then fell in love with a younger colleague. The film is a surprisingly gentle, touching story about acceptance, though it is less than sizzling as a romance.
Gerhard Liebmann is brilliant as Eismayer, a man with a face chiselled out of granite and a worrying-looking vein throbbing across his forehead. He lives as a straight man, married with a young son, but sneaks off to grab quickies with men in the backs of cars. At work he is feared; “Eismayer is a total psychopath,” whispers one soldier. But then along comes recruit Mario (Luka Dimic), a gay soldier who refuses to be humiliated. There’s a terrific moment when Mario runs stark naked around the barracks, shouting: “Fairies never freeze, sergeant major sir!” Eismayer, who has lived his life in fear of exposure, cannot wrap his head around out and proud Mario.
This is an intelligent, understated and naturalistic film. The two men fall in love, then slowly it dawns on Eismayer that times have changed; he’s a dinosaur. Homophobia exists in the army but Mario is liked and accepted by his unit. Mario wants them to be a proper couple, but Eismayer says it is cloud-cuckoo-land talk: the idea of the two of them getting married at the barracks and living happily ever after. But – spoiler alert – that’s exactly what happens. The film ends with a lovely heartwarming photo of the real-life pair on their wedding day, in matching white uniforms and medals.
Eismayer is released on 20 November on digital platforms.
Andrew Lumsden, who has died aged 82, was a leading light of the London Gay Liberation Front (GLF) when it started up in 1970, co-founded the fortnightly Gay News in 1971 and the following year helped organise the first Gay Pride march, out of which came the global phenomenon known simply as Pride. He set the tone for a community.
GLF was a large, anarchic group with no register of members and few rules, and a manifesto that called for changes to the law, professional psychiatry and public attitudes, and “absolute freedom for all”, which met at the London School of Economics. Andrew was in the counter-psychiatry group, which objected to homosexuality being treated as a sickness or immaturity with “cures” such as electric shock therapy. He was appreciated for his charm and wit, and was swiftly elected to the GLF steering committee, though rather than functioning from the top down, GLF worked on the basis of people making suggestions and seeing if others liked them.
At the time he worked as an oil business reporter with the Times. When he offered a piece about GLF to his paper, it was rejected by the editor, William Rees-Mogg, so Andrew sent it to the Daily Mirror, whose editor also turned it down. Finally, Andrew approached the Spectator magazine, which published the piece and promoted it on its cover. This was a breakthrough in the straight media, which more usually reported on homosexuality as a crime, an illness or a joke.
This convinced Andrew of the need for the LGBTQ+ community to have its own regular, reliable journal, which would reach people outside London, and those unable to attend social or political groups. Another GLF member, Denis Lemon, responded to his suggestion, so they assembled a collective to launch the fortnightly Gay News. The paper swiftly became the main organ of communication and debate in the community, and soon reached a circulation of 19,000, even though the main distributors such as WH Smith refused to handle it.
Born in Herne Hill, south London, to Renée (nee Cosbab), a secretary, and James Lumsden, a public relations director, Andrew went as a boarder to Furzedown preparatory school in Littlehampton, and Lancing college, both in West Sussex, before studying English at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. Back in London, he lived in a commune in Notting Hill and became an assistant on BBC TV’s Fanny Cradock cookery programmes, before going into journalism with Management Today and the Times.
Andrew liked drag, although he told Power: “There was an obstacle, and that was that I don’t have any ability for drag at all. Absolutely no clothes sense! That made me a singularly awful representative of that sort of look.” He joined “actions”, and one targeted the Champion pub in Notting Hill in the summer of 1972 because, although it was a gay pub, it refused to serve men in drag. The landlord called the police, one of whom punched Andrew in the face. There were several arrests and the subsequent trial at Marylebone magistrates court “was just a haze of frocks and hats and blowing soap bubbles”, said Andrew. He conducted his own defence, intelligently exposed the landlord’s provocative behaviour, and received a small fine for disorderly conduct.
Andrew was an organiser of the first Pride march in London in 1972, inspired by events in New York including the Stonewall uprising, and with several hundred people taking part. Pride is still celebrated close to the anniversary of Stonewall, but now by millions of people worldwide. On the 50th anniversary, Andrew was one of those who organised a Radical Roots of Pride march in London to celebrate Pride’s origins.
Andrew wrote for Petroleum Economist before returning to Gay News as news editor in 1981, and then for a year as editor. The paper had survived prosecutions for obscenity and blasphemous libel, but finally closed when a new owner was unable to support its finances; Andrew and Gillian Hanscombe told its story in Title Fight: The Battle for Gay News (1983).
The following year he became a trustee of the Defend Gay’s the Word fund that was set up to help Gay’s the Word bookshop in Bloomsbury defeat the seizure of thousands of books and around 100 charges brought by UK Customs and Excise for importing “indecent” material. He also became news editor of the New Statesman, where he was the first journalist on a straight publication to come out to his readers.
After leaving the New Statesman in 1987, Andrew became a guide with Trafalgar Tours, taking tourists round the British Isles in the summer months to fund his passions for drawing and researching the life of Edward II. From 2016 he was a guide for Queer Tours of London and devoted time to radical groups, including a revived GLF with younger members.
On his website he wrote about subjects including Henry Labouchère, the politician who proposed the 1885 law first banning “gross indecency” between men. He spent his final days preparing a shooting script for a film about the gay Dutch resistance fighter Bob Angelo.
Andrew is survived by his partner of 17 years, Stephen Clissold, and by his brother, Quentin. Another brother, David, predeceased him.
Two former officials from Hamtramck, Michigan, filed a lawsuit in federal court on Monday, alleging the city’s recent ban on flying Pride flags and certain other flags on city property is unconstitutional.
Cathy Stackpoole and Russ Gordon were both members of the Hamtramck human relations commission in June, when the Hamtramck city council approved a resolution banning the flying of LGBTQ+ Pride flags on city property, along with certain other flags.
The next month, Stackpoole and Gordon raised a Pride flag on a city-owned flagpole in violation of the new resolution. According to court documents, the councilmember Mohammed Hassan spotted the flag and called the police, who removed the flag. The city council subsequently fired Stackpoole and Gordon from the commission. They are suing for damages and to be reinstated, but they say their lawsuit is about much more.
Supporters of the resolution, including the mayor of Hamtramck, Amer Ghalib, say the flag-banning resolution is “neutral” because the resolution text technically bans any flag other than “the American flag, the flag of the state of Michigan, the Hamtramck flag, the prisoner of war flag and the nations’ flags that represent the international character of our city”.
In a statement to the Guardian, Ghalib said the “neutrality resolution that we passed is legal and constitutional”.
Notably, Ghalib and the Hamtramck city council only introduced the flag-banning resolution after a 2022 public dispute about whether the rainbow Pride flag could be flown on a public flagpole in town. Activists, including Stackpoole and Gordon, point to the city council debate around the passage of the resolution as evidence that it was targeting the Pride flag specifically.
Marc Susselman, the attorney who filed the suit on behalf of Stackpoole and Gordon, argued “what they did violates three provisions of the US constitution”. He said the flag ban violates not only freedom of speech but also the establishment clause of the first amendment, which prohibits the government from making any law on religious grounds.
Attacks on the rainbow Pride flag have grown around the country in the last 18 months. Since 2022, at least 45 communities and school districts across the country have passed regulations to ban the display of the rainbow Pride flag, according to the Gilbert Baker Foundation, which is named for the designer of the original flag.
The foundation is supporting the Hamtramck lawsuit through its national “Save the Rainbow Flag” effort. Until now, the organization has focused on supporting communities to oppose bans through rallies, public pressure and education about potential legal issues. But Charley Beal, the president of the foundation, said this is the first actual lawsuit filed.
Beal said this was about more than a single flag in a single town.
ottoms is a high school movie stuffed with all the great high school movie tropes. There are nerds and jocks, slow clappings, grand gestures on the football field, graffitied lockers and a sad montage that unfolds to the sound of Avril Lavigne’s Complicated. But its leads are PJ and Josie, the “ugly, untalented gays” who set up an after-school fight club with the sole aim of having sex with the cheerleaders. Girls punch each other in the face, teachers read porn magazines in class, everyone pretends to be “empowered” – and, somehow, it still manages to be a feelgood delight. Thrillingly, it may be the least earnest film I have seen in years.
Surprisingly, given that they dreamed up the idea for Bottoms six years ago, it changed very little on its journey from page to screen. “Because the movie is so absurd, it existed in its own world,” Seligman says. “If we were trying to make something more timely, it might have evolved more. But, if anything, the jokes that were written six years ago are just more relevant.” One character says that her vagina belongs to the government, a line that was written long before Roe v Wade was overturned.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
f you locked Shirley Jackson and David Wojnarowicz in a room together, they might invent the kind of mouldering dreamworld that Justin Torres conjures in his new novel, Blackouts: a queer‑gothic version of the Hotel California.
My review notes are full of these pop-cultural thought experiments: imagine Scheherazade plucking her stories from the Kinsey Report; Kiss of the Spider Woman restaged in a psychiatric hospital; the Old Testament rewritten by Tennessee Williams. Blackouts is both a tale and a product of queer inheritance. It is a book that honours its ghosts.
The most insistent spectre in Torres’s novel is Jan Gay, AKA Helen Reitman (1902-1960), the pioneering queer sociologist (“specimen and expert both”). In the 1920s and 30s, Gay conducted hundreds of interviews in the hope of demystifying and normalising queer desire. But to publish her work she needed the imprimatur of a physician, some redoubtable white-coated gent. The result was the landmark report Sex Variants: A Study of Homosexual Patterns (1941), in which Gay’s work was hijacked and pathologised by a team of American doctors – testimonies twisted into diagnoses. But the report also preserved dozens of her interviews, a rare and precious record of queer life in the golden age of eugenics.
In Torres’s novel, a heavily redacted copy of Sex Variants has found its way into the Palace, a desiccating mansion in a nameless border town. In a previous life the Palace may have been a hotel or “stately asylum”. Now it seems to function as a cut-price hospice, or perhaps something a little more purgatorial: the ultimate halfway house. Time moves strangely in its halls, as if “everything here is permanently set to some languorous tempo”.
Long-term resident Juan Gay has spent his days immersed in the blacked-out report, piecing together Jan’s story, and – through her – his own (their shared surname is no accident). But there is only one way to leave the Palace, and Juan’s terminal ride is waiting. It’s time for him to place the project into new hands.
Enter our narrator, a young man we will know only as Nene, the pet name Juan uses for him. Unmoored and broke, Nene has spent the last of his crumpled dollars on a bus fare so he might tend to Juan (“The truth is I had nowhere else to go, and both of us knew as much”). The friends strike a deathbed bargain: Nene will continue Juan’s work in exchange for his room at the Palace.
Blackouts is largely confined to that room. At times it feels like a confessional booth; at others, a therapist’s office or sociology classroom. But it always feels like a metaphor. Underneath the decades of flaking paint, a garish circus cavorts across the wallpaper – a frieze of tamed lions and clowns with rictus grins.
In the hands of a bureaucrat, a black marker is a weapon: a silencer. But it can also be a tool of revelation. So it is here. Torres includes “extracts” from Nene’s copy of the report throughout his novel. Scrubbed free of pseudo-scientific gibberish, Jan Gay’s subjects re-emerge. They are depathologised, humanised – their yearnings unshackled.
Blackouts arrives a dozen years after Torres’s much-loved debut, We the Animals, a semi-autobiographical tale of the wild and clamorous hungers of three young brothers. That book had its teeth bared: it was raucous, linear and determinedly realist. Blackouts is a very different animal. It slips in the door like some soft-footed night creature: paratextual, meta-fictional, multimedia, form-slippery.
Queer history survives in hushed and hidden places: the omissions, the subtext. It is salvaged from footnotes and appendices; patched together from uncatalogued scraps; traced in silhouette; extracted from shameful lies; whispered down the generations. Torres’s novel is a hymn to this resilience, but it is also a celebration of that most transitory and fallible of archives: the body.
Blackouts revels in the grotesque, impossible beauty of human rot. It is a novel of mercies and indignities; bruises and bones; the ever-tangled eroticism of life and death. “From a certain distance, the catastrophic must be indistinguishable from the sublime,” Torres writes. That is what he has managed in this glorious book – to hold us at precisely the right distance.
Blackouts by Justin Torres is published by Granta (£14.99). To support the Guardian and Observer order your copy at guardianbookshop.com. Delivery charges may apply.
It was 1984 and Phillips-Rees needed someone to move a horse. Roberts had a reputation for being good with animals and soon rocked up at the house Phillips-Rees had bought years earlier with her ex-husband. At the time Roberts was married herself, but within a year she had moved in.
The walls of their kitchen tell parts of their unlikely converging stories. There are black-and-white photographs of Roberts and her twin sister, Barbara, each on horseback and the spitting image of the other. Then a striking portrait of Phillips-Rees sketched in the 1970s by a young Robert Hannaford – a relic of a cosmopolitan former life.
Theirs is clearly a well lived-in relationship but try to put a label on it, or Roberts’s sexuality, and she won’t have a bar of it.
First-time documentarian Marion Pilowsky begins at this impasse – one that seems almost anachronistic in a time when such labels are often embraced as sources of community and identity for many queer and marginalised people. As Pilowsky tries in vain to explain the concept of “coming out” to an uninterested Roberts, their set-up seems, in contrast, a callback to earlier eras when coy euphemisms such as “friend” encompassed many unspoken ways of living and loving.
The 80-minute documentary, filmed by Roberts’ own David Magarey Roberts, allows her life story to slowly unfurl as she tends to horses, potters around, and shares a lot of laughter and occasionally some tears.
Roberts was two months pregnant when she married her late husband at a registry office, before moving out to a sheep station 600km north-west of Adelaide where she dug wells, raised four children and lived with an increasingly unstable man. The film-makers follow her to the ruins of that house laid waste by time and the elements (“It was awful, I’ll never go there again,” she says of the experience).
I ask, delicately, whether the idea of living with a woman and having the kind of relationship she enjoys with Phillips-Rees seemed like a possibility back when she married.
“No no no,” she says matter-of-factly.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Kuala Lumpur, London, Somerset and Singapore would follow, where Phillips-Rees would have a range of experiences – “those Indian girls, you know, in Singapore,” she says – before the marriage collapsed. In the film, Phillips-Rees is frustrated by Roberts’ rejection of the “lesbian” label, which she feels negates their connection.
There are aspects of Roberts’ remarkable life that touch on universal questions of age, independence and freedom. The camera captures her determination to continue driving despite the protests of her adult children – a difficult conversation many families might recognise.
But in Roberts’ case there’s a key difference: she’s talking about carriage driving, a passion she picked up as a horse-loving country kid alongside Barbara, who died of cancer years ago. Roberts’ attempts to prove her fitness to literally take the reins at her grandson’s wedding forms a big part of the documentary’s year-long arc.
At the time of this interview, Roberts and Phillips-Rees had yet to see the film, saving it for the premiere as part of the Adelaide film festival, before a theatrical release. Early in filming Phillips-Rees is seen embracing the idea as a “marvellous antidote to the invisibility of older women, grandmothers, including lesbian grandmothers”.
Today she’s a little weary from the year-long scrutiny, and is bracing herself for their families and neighbours seeing everything laid out on the big screen.
“I won’t be able to walk down the bloody street!” she says, laughing.
Roberts seems content not to overthink the film or her life, and still refuses to be defined by her feelings and experiences – the hardships and the quiet liberations.
And as for their domestic situation, there are, perhaps, a few words Roberts is happy to use.
The director of Budapest’s National Museum has been fired from his role over a contentious anti-LGBTQ+ law that he himself voted for when he was a member of parliament.
Hungary’s government on Monday dismissed director László Simon after his museum allowed under-18s to visit a World Press Photo exhibition featuring images of LGBTQ+ people, despite laws banning the “promotion of homosexuality” to minors.
Simon, a former secretary of state for culture and member of parliament for Viktor Orbán’s Fidesz party, had taken up the role as the National Museum’s director in August 2021, shortly after his party passed the controversial law restricting LGBTQ+ content.
Tensions over the exhibition surfaced last month when the far-right Mi Hazánk (Our Homeland) party launched a government inquiry over the issue. The photos at the heart of the inquiry, Home for the Golden Gays by the photojournalist Hannah Reyes Morales, follow the inhabitants of a community-run elderly care home for LGBTQ+ people in Manila, the Philippines.
Mi Hazánk cited a 2021 law that bans the “display and promotion of homosexuality” in books and films accessible to under-18s.
The law, which Orbán’s government says aims to protect children, has come under fire from the EU and human rights groups.
After the government inquiry, the museum said it had no right to ask visitors for ID to determine their age but it included a message on its website calling on under-18s not to visit the exhibition.
The minister for culture and innovation said on Monday that Simon, the museum’s director, had been dismissed for failing to comply “with the legal obligations of the institution”.
In a Facebook post, Simon acknowledged his sacking but said he could not accept its reasoning. “The museum did not deliberately violate any legislation by presenting the pictures of the World Press Photo exhibition”, he said, adding that the institute had immediately flagged the age restriction on its website “without delay”.
Dúró, a former politician for nationalist party Jobbik, last month held a press conference in which she described the World Press Photo exhibition as “harmful”, and objected to its highlighting of a case in Kenya, where a 25-year-old non-binary lesbian was raped and murdered.
This year some Hungarian booksellers were fined for selling books depicting homosexuality, which were not wrapped in plastic as required by the legislation.
A small Alabama town has expressed grief and outrage at the death of a beloved mayor who died by suicide after facing intense online harassment when images of him dressed in women’s clothing and wigs were published by a far-right website.
Mayor FL “Bubba” Copeland, 49, of Smiths Station in east Alabama, killed himself on 3 November. At the time, local police were attempting to perform a wellness check on him, the Lee county sheriff’s office said in a statement.
During a worship service last Sunday, a First Baptist church member, David White, shared remarks on the passing of Copeland, who was also the pastor there.
“Despite what may have been implied in the media, members of this church have been steadfast in their love and concern of their pastor,” White said, in a recording of the service.
“I know that my friend Bubba Copeland loved this church and its people,” he added.
Copeland was laid to rest three days ago and community members praised his “heart of gold”.
Before his death, many had grown concerned for Copeland’s wellbeing after the hard-right website 1819 News in Alabama shared images of Copeland wearing makeup and dressed as a woman as well as excerpts of erotic fiction Copeland had written.
The 1819 News site also published screenshots of social media accounts used by Copeland, in which Copeland described himself as a transgender woman. Copeland, who is married to a woman and has children, confirmed that he ran the accounts, but said that he dressed up as a hobby to release stress.
Copeland specifically asked 1819 News not to publish such information.
The Guardian reached out to several members of 1819 News’ editorial team, but did not receive a response.
Copeland addressed the articles in his last sermon.
“I apologize for any embarrassment caused by my private and personal life,” Copeland said to the church’s congregation.
“I have nothing to be ashamed of. A lot of things were taken out of context,” he added.
There is no record of Copeland preaching any hypocritical, anti-LGBTQ+ messages, the Los Angeles Blade reported.
Community members described Copeland as an empathetic and dedicated leader.
The First Baptist church published a eulogy for Copeland, underscoring his long history of service in Lee county.
“[Above] all, beyond serving his church, city and community, Bubba loved spending time with his family,” the church said.
The former Alabama Democratic US senator Doug Jones praised Copeland’s leadership and friendship in a via X, formerly known as Twitter.
“He was a good man and a great mayor who led the small town of Smith Station through the tough times of a devastating tornado a few years ago,” Jones said, referring to tornado in 2019 that killed 23 people in Lee county.
Copeland was also one of few officials who supported local Pride events, as Alabama continues to pass anti-LGBTQ+ legislation, the Associated Press reported.
Chad Peacock, a former resident of Auburn, Alabama, told AP that he believed Alabama’s anti-LGBTQ+ environment played a role in Copeland’s death.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
“You have to fit the box. You can be who you are, but you should be ashamed of who you are if you’re different,” Peacock said.
Many have also expressed outrage at details of Copeland’s private life being made public without his consent, and the intense harassment Copeland faced before his death.
DiChiara reached out to Copeland following the 1819 News story and offered support, after people online and from within the community ridiculed him, including spreading false rumors.
“It got very personal. Very vindictive. I’m sure at the time, they didn’t think it would lead to a suicide, but that ended up being the outcome,” DiChiara said.
Other mourners shared similar thoughts.
“He didn’t kill himself, he was killed by the judgment of people who should have been loving and supporting him and trusting his heart,” said a comment on the church’s Facebook page.
Jones also denounced 1819 News in his statement, adding that it was “sad and disgusting” to witness how Copeland was treated by the conservative blog.
“We live in a mean, bitter world where the self-righteous tend to throw the largest stones and the [1819 News] is the perfect example,” Jones said.
The latest incident shines a spotlight on the consequences of revealing personal details about someone’s life.
Sam Lau, a spokesperson for the LGBTQ+ advocacy group Human Rights Campaign, said that “outing” – in which someone’s personal life is revealed without their consent – has consistently endangered individuals, regardless of whether they identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or another related demographic.
“Whether or not a person identifies as a part of the LGBTQ+ community, there is a long history in this country of attempting to out public figures against their will, and it consistently causes harm – forced outing is a direct attempt to endanger the person being outed,” Lau said.
DiChiara emphasized that Smiths Station loved Copeland.
“I can tell you a majority of the people here loved Mayor Copeland and wish he was still here,” DiChiara said.
“They don’t care whether he’s wearing high heels or wearing football cleats. We don’t really care. He was a good man and he certainly didn’t deserve to be bullied till he killed himself,” he said.
In Tamworth in 1972, the 62-year-old accountant Vernon Marshall took out ads in the local paper to advertise a support group he’d started.
Marshall was gay. He had lived through Nazi Germany and immigrated to Australia, landing in Tamworth in the 1950s. He rented a post office box to give supporters and attenders a place to write to, in lieu of giving his home address.
That group was called the Camp-Gay Liberation Movement Tamworth and the newsletter was provocatively called Coming-Out. Though short-lived, it was one of the earliest LGBTQ+ organisations in regional Australia.
The local postmaster sought advice from higher-ups on whether Vernon should be allowed to keep his mailbox, worried that it would be used for homosexual acts. Vernon replied that would be very difficult to perform a homosexual act in a mailbox.
A police detective also warned the local paper off running Marshall’s classified ad advertising the PO box. Marshall arranged an interview with the officer to push his case, and won. The newspaper ran his ads again and the fledgling organisation took flight.
It was five years before the first Sydney Mardi Gras. Dianne Minns, the co-chair of First Mardi Inc and one of the original 78ers, said Marshall was “very lucky he was able to take out an ad”.
“I think it was very brave of Vernon to do that newsletter, and very lucky that he got to use the PO box – there were other gay and lesbian organisations at the time who didn’t have that luxury,” Minns says.
Vernon distributed one copy of his newsletter in March 1973. No further editions have been found. It’s not clear whether he began writing under another pen name, or stopped writing entirely. He died in 1984, a few months before homosexuality was decriminalised in New South Wales.
The Tamworth librarian Jody Ekert learned Marshall’s story when she was working on the regional city’s first Pride Fair Day and a local journalist handed her an article from the December 1972 Camp Ink newsletter, which interviewed Marshall about his PO box.
A few years later, locked down with Covid in a cabin on a cruise ship earlier this year, Ekert began thinking about Marshall again.
“I was like ‘I’m so isolated, is it possible to get more isolated?’,” she says.
Then she thought of Marshall. “That dude that you read the article about? That’s gotta be one of the most isolated people: in the 70s, in Tamworth, trying to get something going,” she says.
When Ekert came home, she decided to start the Hey Vernon project to carry on Marshall’s mission and provide a point of connection for people struggling with their identity, especially in rural and regional Australia. She revived the PO box.
Ekert, herself a member of the LGBTQ+ community, says the anonymity of the mail box is appealing.
“People have come out,” she says, “And I don’t know if they’re out in public, but I think some people are using it as their first ‘I-need-to-tell-someone’. People are sharing stories that they’ve never shared with anyone.
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
“Because you’re sending that to an anonymous person, it’s so personal and unfiltered. I read it. I get all the emotions, and then I feel what a gift it is.
Many people do not include a return address. Those who do receive back a copy of Vernon’s original newsletter, which Ekert obtained from the State Library of NSW.
It’s full of pride and frank, Teutonic advice, as well as articles from across the world – the work of someone who was not just tuned in, but experienced and brave, having lived through some of the worst parts of human history.
The newsletter contained an advice column, covering topics including how to come out to your parents, and ‘“are homosexuals happy”. Some letter writers ask the Hey Vernon project for advice.
The project can be contacted at Hey Vernon, PO Box 727 Tamworth, NSW, 2340.
Mexico’s first openly non-binary magistrate and a prominent LGBTQ+ activist has been found dead at home in the central state of Aguascalientes.
Jesús Ociel Baena, who used they/them pronouns, was celebrated across Latin America for their work to advance the rights of the LGBTQ+ community.
Mexico’s security minister, Rosa Icela Rodríguez, said authorities were investigating the cause of death.
“We don’t know yet ... if it was a homicide or if it was some kind of accident,” she said during the president’s regular morning press conference.
The Aguascalientes state prosecutor’s office said in a statement that Baena’s body was found along with that of another person, whom local media identified as Baena’s partner.
Preliminary findings showed no evidence of a third party at the scene and that the deaths could have been a “personal matter”, the statement said.
The authorities are carrying out a forensic analysis to determine the cause of death, the office said.
But human rights activists have pointed out that Mexican authorities have a history of dismissing murders as crimes of passion and asked for a full investigation into whether Baena’s death was related to their gender identity.
Alejandro Brito, director of the LGBTQ+ rights group Letra S, said that Baena’s visibility on social media made them a target and urged authorities to take that context into consideration in their investigation.
“They were a person who received many hate messages, and even threats of violence and death, and you can’t ignore that in these investigations,” Brito said. “They, the magistrate, were breaking through the invisible barriers that closed in the nonbinary community.
Baena was among the most visible LGBTQ+ figures in a country where queer communities are often violently targeted, and had already received death threats.
Baena made history in October 2022 when they were sworn in as a magistrate on the Aguascalientes state electoral tribunal in front of the rainbow LGBTQ+ flag, according to a photo they shared on Twitter/X under the caption “Making history”.
Baena would regularly publish photos and videos of themselves in skirts, heels and toting a rainbow fan in court offices and advocating on social media platforms with hundreds of thousands of followers.
Just weeks before their death, Baena was presented with a certificate by the electoral court recognizing them with gender neutral pronouns as a “maestre”, a significant step in Spanish, a language that historically splits the language between two genders, male and female.
While Brito said Mexico has made significant steps in reducing levels of anti-LGBTQ+ violence in recent decades, his group registered a significant uptick in such violence in 2019, documenting at least 117 lesbian, gay and bisexual and transgender people killed in the country. Many were grisly killings, including brutal stabbings and public slayings.
Brito said he worried that the death of Baena could provoke further acts of violence against queer communities.
In Baena’s honor, LGBTQ+ activists are planning vigils and demonstrations on Monday night in Aguascalientes, as well as Mexico City, Monterrey and other major cities.
The former chief justice of Mexico’s supreme court, Arturo Zaldívar, said he deeply lamented Baena’s death.
“We lost a strong voice for equality and the rights of LGBTI+ people,” he said in a social media post.
After months of pandemic-related delays, Asia’s first Gay Games was held in Hong Kong last week, with nearly 2,400 athletes competing. At the opening ceremony, Regina Ip, the convenor of Hong Kong’s executive council, said the competition represented the city’s commitment to “equal opportunity and non-discrimination”, and praised Hong Kong’s courts for the “numerous judgments” handed down in favour of the LGBTQ+ community in the past decade.
This was met with bemusement by activists and lawyers, who pointed out that Ip’s government has opposed each of those judgments, losing in nearly every single case. Since 2018, there have been at least seven cases relating to LGBTQ+ rights heard by Hong Kong’s courts, with many reaching the Court of Final Appeal, the city’s highest bench. “Why are they still wasting taxpayers’ money fighting these tooth-and-nail litigations when they’re recycling the same arguments and losing?” said Mark Daly, a human rights lawyer who has worked on a number of the cases.
Ip told the Observer that “the government had complied with the Court of Final Appeal’s rulings” in all of the cases that made it to the top court.
The Gay Games were hosted in the wake of a string of legal victories for the LGBTQ+ community, whose success in the courts stands in stark contrast to the increasingly hostile environment for gay and transgender people in mainland China.
In February, Hong Kong’s top court ruled that the policy of requiring trans people to undergo sex reassignment surgery to change their legal gender – which is also required by law in mainland China – was unconstitutional. Then in September, the court ruled that the government was obliged to establish an “alternative framework” for the legal recognition of same-sex unions, while stopping short of endorsing gay marriage.
Several recent cases have involved Henry Li, a 37-year-old solicitor who became a reluctant activist in 2019 after he and his late husband, Edgar Ng, realised that they would not be able to legally live together in the government-subsidised flat bought by Ng because Li could not register as a “spouse” or a “family member”. Ng and Li had married in the UK in 2017 but their union was not legally recognised in Hong Kong.
The legal action was “not really to fight for equality, it was a fight to stay together lawfully in our own home,” said Li, who credits Ng with initiating the judicial review to “protect” him. Last month, the Court of Appeal ruled in Li’s favour, although the housing authority is appealing.
Ng also launched a legal bid to demand equal treatment for same-sex couples with regards to inheritance rights. Last month, the Court of Appeal upheld a lower bench’s ruling in Ng’s favour. But Ng died in 2020, having taken his own life, and his assets remain frozen as the government is expected to appeal.
The London wedding of Edgar Ng, left, and Henry Li.
Ng’s death led to yet more litigation after the morgue refused to let Li identify Ng’s body. “It was cruel, inhumane and demeaning. Edgar’s body was literally in the next room when I was told he’s not my husband,” Li recalled.
He filed a judicial review but dropped it in October 2021 after the government clarified that same-sex partners should be treated equally by the coroner’s office.
The government’s resistance to granting LGBTQ+ people equal rights is in line with Beijing but increasingly at odds with public opinion in Hong Kong. A survey published in May found that 60% of people supported the idea of same-sex marriage, up from 38% a decade ago. More than 70% said that Hong Kong should have a law to protect against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
It is not just in the courts that LGBTQ+ people have clashed with the authorities. In July, Hong Kong’s public broadcaster suspended the city’s only LGBTQ+-related radio show, We Are Family, which had run for 17 years. No official reason was given for the show’s cancellation, but since the passing of a controversial national security law in 2020, imposed by Beijing to quell the months of pro-democracy protests, anything that could be perceived as being critical of the Chinese authorities has become sensitive. The annual Pride march was cancelled in 2020 because of Covid-19 restrictions but shows no signs of returning – although a pop-up Pride exhibition is planned.
Daly noted that while the political atmosphere has not directly affected civil rights litigation, there is “probably a little bit more of a chill” for anyone challenging the government in the courts.
There are some in the pro-democracy camp who balk at the idea that gay rights can be separated from the wider crackdown on freedoms in Hong Kong. In June, a group of activists called for the Gay Games to be cancelled and accused the organisers of aligning themselves with “figures responsible for widespread persecution against the people of Hong Kong”. On the other end of the political spectrum, Junius Ho, a firebrand pro-Beijing legislator, has explicitly said that the games could contravene the national security law.
But the games have struggled to stay out of politics. Taiwan, the only place in Asia to have legalised gay marriage, did not send a delegation to the event in Hong Kong, citing concerns about athletes’ safety in the context of the national security law.
Against the bland, beige backdrop of Mexico’s electoral courtrooms, Jesús Ociel Baena was radiant. The non-binary magistrate paired a shirt and tie with colorful skirts, high heels and bright red lipstick. In the heat of Aguascalientes state, Baena, who used they/their pronouns, would theatrically brandish a rainbow fan to cool down.
Proudly out in the courtroom, the classroom and on social media, Baena was a beacon for Mexico’s queer population, and their death this week has sent shock waves through an embattled community.
At a demonstration honoring the magistrate on Monday night, García held high a hand-painted drawing of Baena with their rainbow hand fan. “We demand justice!” it read.
Officials said that Baena’s body had been found at home, along with that of another person, whom local media identified as Baena’s partner.
In protests across the country on Monday night, LGBTQ+ Mexicans rejected the government’s initial claims that Baena died over a “personal matter” and suggested that their death was fueled by the hate, discrimination and violence the community routinely faces.
Thousands marched along Mexico City’s Reforma Avenue chanting “Justice” and “Crime of passion? National Lie!” They waved rainbow, trans and non-binary flags and whipped rainbow hand fans in the air.
Similar demonstrations were held in other cities including Monterrey, Puebla and Baena’s hometown, Aguascalientes.
Baena was a magistrate at the Aguascalientes State Electoral Institute and a professor at the Autonomous University of Aguascalientes. They pushed linguistic boundaries by rejecting the gendered Spanish word endings, which code nouns as male or female.
How did gendered languages evolve?
Baena used the term le magistrade instead of the male-gendered el magistrado, and in October 2022 they became the first person in Mexico and Latin America to be granted a non-binary magistrate title. In May 2023, Mexico’s foreign relations ministry granted Baena the country’s first non-binary passport. Just three weeks ago, Baena received the first “maestre”, or non-gendered professor, title in electoral law.
“Ociel being a public servant was one of the most tangible pieces of evidence of the progress we’ve made,” said Enrique Torre Molina, an activist and co-founder of the LGBTQ+ organization Colmena 41.
Mexico’s queer community is particularly outraged at what they see as a rush to conclusions by authorities investigating Baena’s death.
Hours after Baena and their partner were found dead, the Aguascalientes state attorney general, Jesús Figueroa Ortega, said both victims where found holding razor blades, which presumably caused their wounds.
He also said that investigators found blood on the bed and bloody footprints leading through the home.
From 2018-2022, LGBTQ+ rights group Letra S documented 453 murders in the community but said the actual number is likely much higher. Trans people were the most common victims, including 13 in the first five months of 2023.
Alejandro Brito, director of Letra S, said that Baena’s visibility on social media made them a target and urged authorities to take that context into consideration in their investigation.
“They were a person who received many hate messages, and even threats of violence and death, and you can’t ignore that in these investigations,” Brito said.
Baena’s supporters have also received threats. One shared comments they received while livestreaming a response to Baena’s death on TikTok.
“What happened to the magistrate is going to happen to you,” a commenter wrote.
One of Baena’s last public appearances was a video posted on social media. Dressed in heels, a long skirt and bright red lipstick, they acted out a skit about how the state electoral board was reserving positions for the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities and people over age 60.
“We need to take over the electoral authority office or go after Ociel Baena,” wrote one commenter.
Another started a petition demanding “that degenerate” Ociel Baena remove the video.
“I will not take down my post!” Baena responded.
Families of suspected LGBTQ+ hate crime victims from rural Australia are cautiously awaiting answers from a special commission of inquiry due to wrap up in Sydney this year.
More than 30 cold cases between 1970 and 2010 were subjected to decades-long investigative delays in New South Wales.
But a world first inquiry headed by Justice John Sackar examined the factors affecting the LGBTQ+ community and heard detailed submissions about these deaths. It also reviewed investigative standards, long-overlooked evidence of homophobia and critical missing records.
Before Sackar’s report – due next month – Guardian Australia reports on some of the people from regional NSW whose cases were considered as part of this inquiry.
Retired London-born teacher Gordon Hughes met his Australian wife, Cathy, in the UK before the couple migrated in 1992. They now live at Shellharbour in the Illawarra region.
Unbeknownst to Gordon, he had a cousin – John Gordon Hughes – who preceded him to Australia in 1956 at the age of 11. Gordon learned of his cousin in a letter from his father 20 years ago.
Gordon found out about John’s sister, Liz, at the same time, and recalls the lateness of these discoveries as upsetting, considering Gordon and Cathy had visited Sydney regularly before John’s death and could have met his cousin.
In February, the inquiry heard a submission about John Hughes’ death. The 44-year-old was found strangled and bound at his Potts Point residence in May 1989. A suspect living in Bathurst – Hughes’ former flatmate Ian Jones – was charged with his murder but later acquitted.
Kathleen Heath, counsel assisting the inquiry, submitted there was “compelling evidence” of homophobia behind Hughes’ death, in contrast to NSW police’s 2018 strike force Parrabell report that stated there was “insufficient information” to establish any gay-hate bias.
Gordon learned through Liz that John had been sent to the Fairbridge Society’s “farm school” at Pinjarra in Western Australia, under the United Kingdom’s child migration scheme.
According to Liz, her parents adopted John as a one-year-old, by which time he had been in 11 different foster homes.
John Gordon Hughes (1945-1989) in London, prior to his 1956 departure for Australia.
“John was sent to Australia because my mother had adopted him late in her life and she was unwell with rheumatoid arthritis plus other illnesses, and she was unable to cope with his behaviour,” she tells Guardian Australia.
“She honestly thought he would have a far better life and opportunities on a farm out there with plenty of fresh air and the chance to learn farming skills.
The 2018 report of an independent inquiry in the UK described the child migration program as “a deeply flawed policy that caused lifelong damage to many children”.
Heath submitted to the inquiry that it should make an open finding with regards to Hughes’ death, with the “strong probability” being that he was killed by Jones, who has since died.
Gordon says he is relieved the inquiry was established but is “not quite sure what justice would look like”.
“If John and all the other victims of these crimes are rescued from anonymity and their lives and experiences brought into focus, and the loss of their stories and humanity restored, perhaps that is justice,” he says.
Liz says she is glad her brother’s death is being looked into. “We need closure,” she says.
Peter Russell and his partner, Donna Hannah, now live at Lake Macquarie on the NSW central coast. But they still keenly recall a decades-old dream of relocating to 38 acres at Wollombi in the Hunter Valley, a plan that involved Peter’s brother, John.
“I was just in a new relationship with Donna and we got a flat down in Bondi Beach, but John was going to move up to Wollombi and build a kit home up there with Dad … a base for the family,” Russell says.
That dream was interrupted when John was found dead at the foot of cliffs below Marks Park, a known gay beat at Bondi, in November 1989.
At the time, police concluded he had accidentally fallen to his death. Officers attending the scene observed hair strands in one hand that were not a likely match to John’s, but these were never forensically examined or archived.
In 2005, after NSW police’s strike force Taradale reinvestigated several unsolved deaths at Bondi, then deputy state coroner Jacqueline Milledge found that John had been thrown from the cliff in a likely gay-hate attack.
In June, the special commission heard a submission from Peter Gray, counsel assisting the inquiry, about the little-known NSW police strike force Neiwand. In 2017 the Neiwand report advised that Milledge’s findings be “disregarded” and that “other causes of death were as likely or more likely”, the inquiry heard.
Russell says his family should have been informed of the Neiwand report’s advice when it was first made.
Russell says he believes ‘someone out there knows something’ about his brother’s death.
“We’ve been through every conceivable hearing and interview and TV show and book and we’ve been through a hell of a lot,” he says.
It was submitted to Sackar that Milledge’s findings about John’s death be upheld.
Russell says he believes “someone out there knows something” about his brother’s death.
“And it’s a real worry that there’s people out there that know somebody that murdered someone and they’re letting it lie,” Hannah says.
In February, ACT-based William Towler tuned into the livestream of the special commission. He had been made aware a few weeks earlier that his uncle Graham Paynter was among those whose deaths were being reinvestigated.
Paynter, a surveyor’s assistant, was found dead at the base of a Tathra cliff on the south coast in October 1989, jeans around his ankles and jumper over his head. He was 36 years old. Police concluded he had died as the result of an accidental fall.
Paynter’s family says they were not aware if he was a member of the LGBTQ+ community, although Heath told the inquiry that, “they were open to the possibility and would have been very supportive”.
Nevertheless, in 2015 Paynter’s case was included in strike force Parrabell.
Heath told the current inquiry that she had been unable to access an investigative record on Paynter’s death, which she said was a “troubling” gap in police archiving. She added that a thorough investigation would have obtained more information about Paynter’s personal circumstances and a statement from the man he had been drinking with on the night he died.
“This may have opened further lines of inquiry,” she told the inquiry.
An independent review of the original autopsy was carried out by the inquiry, with Heath noting “nothing in the medical findings that could differentiate between an accidental fall, suicide, or a homicidal fall in which Mr Paytner was pushed”.
Nevertheless, she submitted that Paynter’s fall was likely accidental.
Towler and his brother Andrew Bird gave a written statement to the inquiry, hoping that “details surrounding his untimely death are investigated and given the proper respect, attention, time and results that anyone should expect when the loss of a loved one occurs, rather than being brushed aside or put into the too-hard basket”.
“Please give our uncle a voice that he has so long been denied,” they said.
The inquiry will hold its final public hearing on 14 November.
In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is 13 11 14. For LGBTIQA+ people and their families there is QLife, 1800 184 527, www.qlife.org.au; and in Victoria there is Rainbow Door, 1800 729 367, www.rainbowdoor.org.au.