The move to leave X comes after months of concerns about hateful speech on the platform, as owner Elon Musk emphasizes his desire for what he calls “free speech” instead. Musk has also taken hits at digital online watchdog groups who criticized the company’s handling of hate speech and other troubling content, including suing the Center for Countering Digital Hate and threatening legal action against the Anti-Defamation League (the lawsuit against the ADL never materialized, and the group later resumed advertising on X).
Musk himself — whose daughter is transgender and said earlier this year that she wanted to cut ties with her father — has been criticized for some of his statements on X regarding gender identity issues.
The Trevor Project also noted that its exit from X comes after hundreds of anti-LGBTQ+ bills, a record number, have been introduced into statehouses across the United States in 2023. Fellow civil rights organization the Human Rights Campaign in June declared a “state of emergency” for members of the LGBTQ+ community.
Indeed, many of the replies to the group’s recent posts on X are filled with dozens of angry and hateful comments, in some cases hidden behind a label that notes they may be offensive.
A year after Musk acquired the platform, X has been scrambling to stem the tide of users leaving the platform for alternatives in the wake of the billionaire’s controversial leadership style and policy changes. A number of new social platforms have cropped up over the past year, including Meta’s Threads, Mastodon, a new site backed by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey called Bluesky and a platform from former Twitter employees called Spill.
The company has also been attempting to convince many advertisers to resume or increase their spending on the platform despite concerns that ads could show up alongside hateful content or misinformation. X CEO Linda Yaccarino has touted the platform’s brand safety controls that are meant to allow advertisers to choose what kinds of content their ads can appear next to.
CNN has reached out to X about the Trevor Project deleting its account.
A new ruling by the Vatican’s doctrine department has opened the door to Catholic baptism for transgender people and babies of same-sex couples.
The new rules, dated October 31, come from a set of questions, or dubia, submitted to the Dicastery for the Doctrine of the Faith (DDF) by Brazilian bishop Giuseppe Negri. The answers to his questions about certain sacraments were published on the Vatican’s website in Italian on Wednesday evening.
Regarding transgender people, the document says a person who identifies as transgender can be baptized like any other adult, “as long as there is no risk of causing scandal or disorientation” to other Catholics.
Children who identify as transgender can also be baptized if “well prepared and willing,” it says. The document also states that transgender people, including those who have undergone gender reassignment procedures, can be godparents and witnesses in Catholic weddings under the right circumstances.
The document makes clear that people who live in homosexual relationships are still committing a sin, and that baptism must come with repentance for such sins. The document cites several sermons by Pope Francis for the ruling.
“The church is not a tollhouse; it is the house of the father, where there is a place for everyone, with all their problems,” the document states, quoting the pope’s 2013 apostolic exhortation Evangelii Gaudium.
In each circumstance, the priest is asked to use “pastoral prudence” in deciding whether to allow a transgender person’s participation.
The document added that the priest should also take into consideration if there are other people in the extended family who can “guarantee” the “proper transmission of the Catholic faith” to the baptized person.
LGBTQ issues were a major area of discussion during the Vatican’s recent synod.
However, the group warns that the ruling doesn’t go far enough.
“If church leaders do not employ pastoral prudence with this guideline, it could be used by other officials to establish other policies which would exclude such people from other areas of church life,” DeBernardo writes.
“Focusing particularly on the ineligibility of people in ‘stable, marriage-like relations’ who are ‘well known by the community’ suggests that the DDF remains more concerned about ‘causing scandal’ than about integrating LGBTQ+ Catholics in the lives of the church and of their families,” he continues.
Speaker of the House Mike Johnson closely collaborated with a group in the mid-to-late 2000s that promoted “conversion therapy,” a discredited practice that asserted it could change the sexual orientation of gay and lesbian individuals.
Prior to launching his political career, Johnson, a lawyer, gave legal advice to an organization called Exodus International and partnered with the group to put on an annual anti-gay event aimed at teens, according to a CNN KFile review of more than a dozen of Johnson’s media appearances from that timespan.
Founded in 1976, Exodus International was a leader in the so-called “ex-gay” movement, which aimed to make gay individuals straight through conversion therapy programs using religious and counseling methods. Exodus International connected ministries across the world using these controversial approaches.
The group shut down in 2013, with its founder posting a public apology for the “pain and hurt” his organization caused. Conversion therapy has been widely condemned by most major medical institutions and has been shown to be harmful to struggling LGBTQ people.
At the time, Johnson worked as an attorney for the socially conservative legal advocacy group, Alliance Defense Fund (ADF). He and his group collaborated with Exodus from 2006 to 2010.
For years, Johnson and Exodus worked on an event started by ADF in 2005 known as the “Day of Truth” – a counterprotest to the “Day of Silence,” a day in schools in which students stayed silent to bring awareness to bullying faced by LGBTQ youth.
The Day of Truth sought to counter that silence by distributing information about what Johnson described as the “dangerous” gay lifestyle.
In print, radio and on television, Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, frequently disparaged homosexuality, according to KFile’s review. He advocated for the criminalization of gay sex and went so far as to partially blame it for the fall of the Roman Empire.
“Some credit to the fall of Rome to not only the deprivation of the society and the loss of morals, but also to the rampant homosexual behavior that was condoned by the society,” Johnson told a radio host in 2008.
Johnson’s office did not respond to a CNN request for comment asking about his work with Exodus.
Exodus International joined ADF’s Day of Truth event in 2006 and the groups worked together on promotional material for the event, including a standalone website which pointed users to Exodus’ conversion ministries. Documents on that website cited the since-repudiated academic work in support of conversion therapy. Exodus Youth, the group’s youth wing, promoted the event within its blogs.
Johnson promoted the event heavily in the media – through radio interviews, comments in newspapers, and an editorial. In interviews, he repeatedly cited the case of a teen who went to school after the Day of Silence wearing a shirt that read, “Be ashamed. Our school has embraced what God has condemned” and “Homosexuality is shameful.” The teen was suspended and ADF represented him in legal action over the incident. The case was dismissed because the teen graduated, and the court found he no longer had standing to challenge the dress code.
“Day of Truth was really established to counter the promotion of the homosexual agenda in public schools,” Johnson told a radio host in 2008.
Those who worked to counter ADF and Exodus at the time, said the event was dangerous to confused youth.
Randy Scobey, a former executive vice president at Exodus, who worked on the Day of Truth in the organization’s collaboration with ADF, called the event one of his biggest regrets.
Ties between Exodus and ADF extended beyond the event.
Exodus International stopped sponsoring the Day of Truth event in 2010, saying it became adversarial and counterproductive.
CNN’s Em Steck contributed to this report.
South Korea’s Constitutional Court has upheld a law banning same-sex relations in the military, citing a threat to combat-readiness, in a judgment decried by the local LGBTQ community as a disappointing setback.
In a 5-4 ruling on Thursday, the court refused to declare as unconstitutional a clause in the Military Criminal Act that bans “anal intercourse” or “any other indecent act” during service and allows for punishments of up to two years in prison.
Though the law does not explicitly refer to same-sex relationships, this is how it is generally understood in practice and the law has long been opposed by LGBTQ activists who see it as discriminatory.
The court said in its judgment Thursday that allowing same-sex relations between soldiers would jeopardize the army’s discipline and potentially upend its hierarchy.
“Even if sexual acts are consensual” they risk “causing serious harm to preserving the fighting power of the nation’s armed forces, if committed (while on duty),” it added.
It is “unclear” whether the law banned “indecent acts” only between same-sex soldiers or also between male and female ones, they added.
Activist group Rainbow Action Against Sexual-Minority Discrimination said the ruling was disappointing and criticized the court for failing to protect the rights of the minority.
But the group said it was encouraged by the comments of the dissenting judges, who warned against deeming sexual acts between same-sex couples as abnormal.
The dissenting judges said there is “no reason” to differentiate between consensual sexual acts by same-sex soldiers and heterosexual ones.
“This is clearly highlighting the indecent act provision of the Military Criminal Act as discriminatory against sexual minorities,” the group stressed.
The researcher said the ruling underscored the widespread prejudice sexual minorities face in South Korea and the government’s lack of action to protect them by pushing for greater equality.
With a mandatory military service imposed on almost all able-bodied men between the age of 18 and 28, South Korea has one of the world’s largest active armies.
While South Korea does not legally recognize same-sex marriage, activists say there has been progress on LGBTQ rights in recent years.
In a landmark ruling in February, a court ruled in favor of a same-sex couple seeking equal health benefits. The decision was hailed by supporters and activists as the first recognition of the legal rights of such couples.
The plaintiff, So Seong-wook, took legal action after the government-affiliated National Health Insurance Service started charging him premium payments despite his status as a “spouse dependent” of his male partner.
But there has also been a surge of resistance from Christian and conservative groups in recent months.
In May, South Korea’s biggest LGBTQ pride celebration, Seoul Queer Culture Festival failed to get a licence to operate at its annual venue, which was used for a Christian youth concert instead.
A month later, scuffles broke out in the city of Daegu as local officials led by the mayor clashed with police during a protest against the Daegu Queer Culture Festival.
Speaker of the House Mike Johnson has a history of harsh anti-gay language from his time as an attorney for a socially conservative legal group in the mid-2000s.
At the time, Johnson was an attorney and spokesman for Alliance Defense Fund, known today as Alliance Defending Freedom, where he also authored his opposition to the Supreme Court ruling in Lawrence v. Texas – which overturned state laws that criminalized homosexual activity between consenting adults.
ADF wrote an amicus brief in the case which supported maintaining criminalization.
“States have many legitimate grounds to proscribe same-sex deviate sexual intercourse,” Johnson wrote in a July 2003 op-ed, calling it a public health concern.
“By closing these bedroom doors, they have opened a Pandora’s box,” he added.
On Thursday, Johnson was asked to respond to KFile’s report on the editorials during a lengthy interview with Fox News’ Sean Hannity.
“I don’t even remember some of them,” Johnson told Hannity.
“I was a litigator that was called upon to defend the state marriage amendments. If you remember back in the early 2000s there was over 35 states somewhere in that number that the people went to the ballot in their respective states and they amended their state constitutions to say marriage is one man, one woman. Well, I was a religious liberty defense lawyer and I was called to go in and defend those cases in the court,” he said.
Johnson, who called himself a Bible-believing Christian, went on to say he genuinely loves all people “regardless of their lifestyle choices” and that he respects the rule of law.
Johnson is now the speaker of the House at a time when a majority of Americans are strongly supportive of gay rights.
In the House Republican Conference’s voting for their speaker nominee, Tom Emmer, who initially beat out Johnson, came under fire from conservatives for voting to codify same-sex marriage in 2022.
Johnson, according to Punchbowl News, reportedly made an issue of Emmer’s vote. Johnson voted against the bill. In 2022, Johnson also introduced a bill that some describe as a national version of what critics have called Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” bill.
In the mid-2000s, Johnson’s anti-gay rhetoric was harsh. In September 2004, Johnson wrote in support of a Louisiana amendment banning same-sex marriage saying it could lead to people marrying their pets.
Johnson added that allowing same-sex marriage could be the downfall of the democratic system.
In another 2004 column, Johnson again predicted same-sex marriage could doom America.
Seventy-six people were arrested for attending a birthday party for gay people in northern Nigeria, the country’s paramilitary agency said on Monday, adding that the organizer had also planned to hold a same sex wedding, which is illegal.
These are the latest arrests targeting LGBTQ Nigerians after police in August raided a gay wedding in the southern city of Warri in Delta state, and arrested dozens of people. The accused are out on bail.
In Nigeria, like in most parts of Africa, homosexuality is generally viewed as unacceptable, and a 2014 anti-gay law took effect despite international condemnation.
Buhari Saad, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) spokesperson for the largely Muslim Gombe state, said after receiving a tip off, the agency raided a party on Saturday night that was being attended by “homosexuals and pimps”.
He said 59 men had been arrested, including 21 who confessed to being homosexual, and 17 women.
The Gombe NSCDC said in a statement that the organizer of the birthday party had also planned to wed another man, who was still at large, before police raided the event.
The anti-gay law in Africa’s most populous nation includes a prison term of up to 14 years for those convicted, and bans gay marriage, same-sex relationships, and membership of gay rights groups.
The case was expected to be heard in the Gombe state High Court on Tuesday, Saad said.
India’s top court has declined to legally recognize same-sex unions in a landmark ruling that also emphasized the rights of the LGBTQ community to be free of prejudice and discrimination.
Campaigners had sought to obtain the right to marry under Indian law, giving them access to the same privileges extended to heterosexual couples, but while that was denied they welcomed the court’s recognition of their relationships.
A five-judge constitution bench led by India’s chief justice delivered the much-anticipated verdict on Tuesday, streamed live across the nation and to crowds outside the court who gathered to watch on their cellphones.
A member of LGBTQ community reacts on the day of the verdict on same-sex marriage by the Supreme Court in New Delhi, India, October 17, 2023.
Bhat called for a “high-powered committee” to be formed to evaluate laws that indirectly discriminate against LGBTQ couples by denying them “compensatory benefits or social welfare entitlements” that usually come with being legally married.
“This court cannot within the judicial framework engage in this complex task, the state has to study the impact of these policies and entitlements,” he said.
India’s marriage laws bar millions of LGBTQ couples from accessing legal benefits attached to matrimony in relation to matters including adoption, insurance and inheritance.
More than a dozen petitioners had challenged the law, taking their case to the Supreme Court, which heard their arguments during hearings in April and May.
Susan Dias, one of the petitioners in the case, said she, along with her partner were “disappointed” with the verdict.
The ruling government of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had opposed calls to legalize the unions.
Dozens of LGBTQ activists gathered outside the Supreme Court in the Indian capital New Delhi while the verdict was being read.
Some welcomed the judgment as a progressive move, while others said it wasn’t good enough.
Another bystander, Faraz, said he was a little disappointed.
Amrita awaits the verdict at the Supreme Court of India on October 17, 2023.
Amrita watches the verdict on their phone at the Supreme Court of India on October 17, 2023.
India has a large LGBTQ community and celebrates gay pride in cities across the country but attitudes toward same-sex relationships have been complicated.
Hindu mythology dating back centuries features men transforming into women and holy texts include third gender characters. But same-sex intercourse was criminalized and marriage rights limited to heterosexual couples under a penal code introduced by India’s British former colonial rulers in 1860.
During nearly a decade in power, Indian leader Narendra Modi and his ruling BJP party have been keen to shake off India’s colonial baggage, renaming streets and cities and championing an India in charge of its own destiny. But Victorian laws governing same-sex marriage are one throwback to the colonial past his party has fought to retain.
An activist displays a tattoo reading "Born this way" in the courtyard of India's Supreme Court in New Delhi on October 17, 2023.
Campaigners in India have said the law doesn’t only trap members of the LGBTQ community in the closet, but also invites other forms of discrimination and provides a cover for blackmail and harassment.
After a decade-long battle in 2018, the Supreme Court struck down the colonial-era law that criminalized same-sex intercourse – though it left intact the legislation limiting marriage to heterosexual couples.
Since then, surveys have shown that acceptance of homosexuality has grown.
According to a Pew survey published in June, 53% people believed homosexuality should be accepted – a 38% increase from 2014.
Yet, despite this larger embrace, conservatives within India have been opposed to same-sex unions.
It wasn’t love at first sight when Aditi Anand met Susan Dias at a book club in Mumbai.
Weeks later, when the two women bumped into each other at a phone shop, Dias even ignored Anand.
More than a decade later, Anand and Dias have built a life together. They have co-founded their own companies, are raising a son, own a home and have adopted a dog.
But there’s one thing they have not been able to do in their home country: marry.
Aditi Anand, left, and Susan Dias, right, are among 18 petitioners challenging the law.
India, the world’s largest democracy and most populous country, does not recognize same-sex marriage, effectively barring millions of LGBTQ couples from accessing some of the legal benefits attached to matrimony in relation to issues like adoption, insurance and inheritance.
In Dias and Anand’s case, for instance, under the present law only one of them is recognized as their son’s legal parent, which affects issues like who can make medical decisions on his behalf.
However, things could be about to change.
In a landmark case being live-streamed to the public and watched by tens of thousands of people every day, India’s Supreme Court has since April been hearing submissions from activists challenging the law.
Advocates acting on behalf of 18 petitioners say it’s time for India to treat the country’s LGBTQ community as equal citizens under its constitution.
But they’re up against a tough opponent: the ruling government of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which argues that same-sex marriage is a “Western” concept without “any basis” in the constitution. It told the court in a recent submission such unions were an “urban” and “elitist” concept, and therefore not welcome in the country.
A ruling by the court is expected soon.
If the activists are successful, it could change the fabric of what is traditionally a deeply conservative country.
Members and supporters of LGBTQ community holld rainbow flag while taking part in the annual LGBTQ Pride Parade.
Indian attitudes to LGBTQ issues are complex.
Hindu mythology dating back centuries features men transforming into women and holy texts feature third gender characters. But same-sex intercourse was criminalized and marriage rights limited to heterosexual couples under a penal code introduced by India’s British former colonial leaders in 1860.
Since then, India’s LGBTQ community – likely one of the world’s largest given its population of 1.4 billion people – has faced widespread marginalization from society.
Both those elements of the colonial-era penal code remained in force even 70 years after India gained independence in 1947 (and years after they were abandoned by the former colonizer – with England and Wales legalizing same-sex intercourse in 1967 and same-sex marriage in 2013).
During nearly a decade in power, Indian leader Narendra Modi and his ruling BJP party have been keen to shake off India’s colonial baggage, renaming streets and cities and championing an India in charge of its own destiny. But Victorian laws governing same-sex marriage are one throwback to the colonial past his party has fought to retain.
In 2017, when the couple Vishwa and Vivek got married, homosexuality was still a crime – punishable by up to 10 years in prison. They held an intimate Hindu ceremony at Vishwa’s parents apartment just outside of New Delhi, inviting only some of their closest friends and family.
Vishwa and Vivek on their wedding day in 2017.
That same year, award-winning Indian filmmaker Karan Johar wrote about what it meant to be gay in India.
But there are signs attitudes are beginning to change.
In 2018, after a decade-long battle, the Supreme Court struck down the colonial-era law that criminalized same-sex intercourse – though it left intact the legislation limiting marriage to heterosexual couples.
In recent years same-sex relationships have been increasingly embraced both by Bollywood, the country’s highly influential Hindi-film industry, and major cities like Mumbai and Bengaluru, which celebrate pride month with parades and large-scale events.
Vishwa says these are big wins for the community and have encouraged efforts to change the law further, even in the face of strong government opposition. Even a ruling against the petitioners might have a silver lining, he said.
Whatever the court decides, its ruling will affect millions of people in India for generations to come.
Advocates say a positive ruling will give legitimacy and more influence to the countless Indians who presently struggle to come to terms with their sexuality and face harassment on the streets, in schools and in the workplace.
Celebrity chef and LGBTQ activist Suvir Saran is among those critical of the government’s stance, saying it is sending a message that India doesn’t accept people the way they are.
In rural pockets of the country, where discrimination is widespread, the ramifications of coming out can be particularly dire, Saran says.
“If you’re coming from a place with no access to quality education, or just any of the basic amenities of life, you’re broken. You’re broken even before you get to your sexuality,” Saran said.
Anish Gawde, founder of Pink List India, an organization that tracks the LGBTQ views of Indian politicians, said many people without support have been driven from their homes and forced to live a life of seclusion.
Vivek hopes a positive ruling would legitimize his relationship with his husband in the eyes of the wider public.
Since petitioning the top court, Dias said she has realized that they are not doing this for themselves, but for the millions of people who don’t have the means to fight.
“It’s really become a collective action now. I’m doing this for those who cannot, as much as I’m doing it for myself,” she said.
Anand agreed, adding that what started off as a conversation in their home has morphed into a movement that has united India’s LGBTQ community.
“We are asking can we be equal?” she said.
CNN’s Manveena Suri, Vedika Sud and Sania Farooqui contributed reporting.